National Science Education Tax Incentive for Businesses Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a general business tax credit for contributions of property or services to elementary and secondary schools and for teacher training to promote instruction in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics .
Small Business Expansion and Hiring Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow nongovernmental employers who employ an average of fewer than 100 employees during a taxable year a retained worker tax credit until December 31, 2012, for the lesser of $4,000 or 6.2 of the wages paid to a retained worker during a period of not less than 52 consecutive weeks of employment. Limits the amount of such credit with respect to any business location of the employer to $400,000 and provides that the number of retained workers taken into account for such credit shall not exceed the excess of the number of employees of the taxpayer at the end of the taxable year over the number of such employees at the beginning of the taxable year. Defines retained worker to mean any qualified individual who was employed on any date during the taxable year for a period of not less than 52 weeks and whose wages during the last 26 weeks of such period equaled at least 80 of such wages for the first 26 weeks of such period. Defines qualified individual as any individual who: (1) begins employment after 2010 and before 2014, (2) certifies by signed affidavit that such individual has not been employed for 40 hours or more per week during the 60-day period ending on the date such individual begins employment, (3) is not replacing another employee, and (4) is not disqualified for such credit by a relationship to the employer.
Requires the Director of National Intelligence to make publicly available on an Internet website all documents captured in Afghanistan or Iraq during Operations Desert Storm, Enduring Freedom, or Iraqi Freedom. Provides conditions under which the Director shall not be required to make a captured document publicly available, including providing a list of retained documents, and the criteria used for such retention, to the congressional intelligence committees.
National Cancer Act of 2003 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop an information-sharing plan for State cancer registries. Modifies provisions concerning preventive health measures with respect to breast and cervical cancers to permit priority to be given to certain projects involving: (1) colorectal cancer screening and outreach. And (2) treating uninsured women diagnosed with cancer during such screening. Authorizes specified waivers of the direct services requirement for breast and cervical cancer screening grants. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to eligible entities to educate cancer patients and their families about medical techniques to reduce and prevent pain, survivorship care and support programs, and related community resources. Requires a national cancer research center to have a practitioner education program that includes pain and symptom management and survivorship care. Amends various provisions of the Act to emphasize the importance of pain and symptom management throughout the nation's cancer programs. Establishes within the National Cancer Institute an Office on Cancer Survivorship. Authorizes the Director of NCI to co-fund grant projects for various cancer programs. Expresses the sense of the Senate with respect to: (1) cancer survivorship, and (2) institutional review board procedures.
Military Call-up Relief Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to waive the ten percent early withdrawal penalty for distributions from qualified retirement plans to individuals called to active duty during the national emergency declared by the President on September 14, 2001.
Requires the Customs Service to reliquidate certain entries prematurely liquidated and to refund any amounts owed.
Service Dogs for Veterans Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to commence a three-year pilot program to assess the benefits, feasibility, and advisability of using service dogs for the treatment or rehabilitation of veterans with physical or mental injuries or disabilities, including post-traumatic stress disorder. Requires related reports to Congress.
Race to the Top Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to states and local educational agencies (LEAs) to implement reforms and innovations designed to improve educational outcomes significantly for all students and reduce achievement gaps significantly among specified student subgroups. Requires each grant applicant to have a comprehensive and coherent plan for doing so that includes, if applicable: (1) improving the effectiveness of teachers and school leaders and promoting their equitable distribution, (2) strengthening the use of data to improve education. (3) implementing internationally benchmarked, college- and career-ready elementary and secondary academic standards, (4) turning around its lowest-performing schools. (5) supporting, or coordinating with, early learning programs for high-need children from birth through third grade. And (6) creating or maintaining successful conditions for high-performing charter schools and other innovative, autonomous public schools. Requires each grantee to establish performance measures that track its progress in implementing its plan, and improving educational outcomes for students and specified student subgroups. Gives grant priority to LEAs with the highest number or percentages of impoverished children and those that serve rural schools. Requires each state grantee to use at least 50 of its grant for subgrants to LEAs that participate in its plan. Allows LEAs to receive a grant and subgrant for the same fiscal year.
Troop Talent Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretaries of the military departments, to the maximum extent practicable, to make information on civilian credentialing opportunities available to members of the Armed Forces (members) beginning with, and at every stage of, their training for military occupational specialities, in order to permit such members to: (1) evaluate the extent to which such training correlates with skills and training required for various civilian certifications and licenses, and (2) assess the suitability of such training for obtaining and pursuing such certifications and licenses. Requires the information made available to: (1) be consistent with the Transition Goals Plans Success program, and (2) include information on the civilian occupational equivalents of military occupational specialties. Requires such Secretaries to make available to civilian credentialing agencies specified information on the content of military training provided to members. Allows members or veterans to use educational assistance provided through the Department of Defense (DOD) or the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in pursuit of a civilian certification or license only if the successful completion of a curriculum fully qualifies such student to take the appropriate examination and be certified or licensed to meet any other academic conditions required for entry into that occupation or profession. Requires the military occupational specialties designated for a military skills to civilian credentialing pilot program under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 to include those specialties relating to the military information technology workforce. Directs the VA Secretary to reestablish the Professional Certification and Licensure Advisory Committee . Provides additional Committee duties, including the development of: (1) guidance for audits of licensure and certification programs in order to ensure high-quality education to members and veterans, and (2) a plan to improve outreach to members and veterans on the importance of licensing and certification and the availability of educational benefits.
Taxpayer's Right to View Act of 1993 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit a cable operator from assessing separate charges for any video programming of a sporting, theatrical, or other entertainment event if that event is performed at a facility constructed, renovated, or maintained with tax revenues or by an organization that receives public financial support. Authorizes the Federal Communications Commission and local franchising authorities to make determinations concerning the applicability of such prohibition. Sets forth conditions under which a facility is considered to have been constructed, maintained, or renovated with tax revenues. Considers events performed by nonprofit or public organizations that receive tax subsidies to be subject to this Act if the event is sponsored by, or includes the participation of a team that is part of, a tax exempt organization.
Full-Service Schools Act - Establishes the Federal Interagency Work Group to facilitate collaboration among Federal agencies and make grants to States and local entities in order to integrate education, health, and social and human services for at-risk children and their families. Provides that the Group shall be composed of the Secretaries of Education, Health and Human Services, and Labor and funded equally by their departments. Sets forth Group duties and State and local eligibility requirements. Sets forth application requirements and grant limitations. Requires local programs to include activities to improve educational performance by: (1) reducing school dropout and teen pregnancy rates and the number of children in unsupervised settings. (2) increasing adultfamily literacy and the number of students returning to school after dropping out. And (3) improving access to primary health care for families and their children. Allows local programs to develop a variety of programs to serve the comprehensive needs of students, including specified optional activities. Authorizes appropriations.
Wall Street Compensation Reform Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to restrict the tax deduction for compensation paid to highly-paid employees of systemically significant financial institutions. Requires such compensation to be performance-based, to vest no earlier than five years after the date of payment, and to consist of 50 employer stock. Prohibits such highly-paid employees from using personal hedging strategies and remuneration or liability-related insurance and requires forfeiture of compensation paid to a chief executive or financial officer of such an institution if an accounting restatement is required due to material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any federal financial reporting requirement. Defines a systemically significant financial institution as an entity which engages primarily in financial activities and which: (1) owns or controls assets greater than $25 billion. Or (2) owns or controls assets greater than $10 billion and maintains a ratio of debt to equity greater than 20 to 1. Requires each systemically significant financial institution which is a publicly held corporation to make an annual report on its compensation policies and practices to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and make such report publicly available.
Amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to repeal the long-term goal of reducing to zero the incidental mortality and serious injury of marine mammals in commercial fishing operations. Makes reduction of such incidental mortality and serious injury the long-term goal.
Freedom and Mobility in Consumer Banking Act - Amends the Truth in Savings Act to prohibit depository institutions from: (1) prohibiting a consumer from closing a covered account , regardless of whether the balance is positive, zero, or negative, (2) charging any fee to close such account. Or (3) reopening such an account to apply subsequent debits after a consumer has requested the account to be closed, unless the consumer requests that the account be reopened. Requires depository institutions to provide consumers with a description of the policies and procedures in place to close such accounts at the time the account is opened, upon request, and on the websites of such institutions. Directs the CFPB to prescribe regulations relating to the closure of such accounts, including: (1) allowing consumers to receive available funds from a closed account in the form of a cashier's check, electronic funds transfer, or any other means offered by the institution or determined appropriate by the CFPB. (2) requiring depository institutions to provide consumers with certain information regarding any preauthorized transactions or direct deposits associated with an account before it is closed. (3) prohibiting a depository institution from reporting adverse information regarding such account to any consumer reporting agency if, at the time the account is closed, the account has a negative balance resulting solely from any fee assessed by the depository institution. And (4) establishing the terms under which a depository institution may report to a consumer reporting agency that an account had a negative closing balance, provided that the institution notifies the consumer and provides a reasonable period for repayment of the balance. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to report to Congress and the CFPB regarding additional barriers that could limit the ability of a consumer to close a covered account. Requires the CFPB, after receiving such report, to determine whether regulations should be issued to remove such barriers.
Education and Training for Health Act of 2017 or the EAT for Health Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services to issue guidelines to federal agencies to ensure that federal, full time primary care health professionals have continuing education relating to nutrition. Agencies must annually report information including the extent to which they have adopted and encouraged the guidelines. The continuing education must: (1) include content on the role of nutrition in the prevention, management, and reversal of obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, or cancer. And (2) meet requirements for continuing medical education or continuing education by medical or nurse practitioner professional organizations or certified accrediting bodies.
Recreational Hunting Safety and Preservation Act of 1993 - Makes it unlawful to intentionally obstruct a lawful hunt on Federal lands. Establishes: (1) civil penalties for such violations, (2) procedures for individual and government agent complaints. And (3) permitted uses of collected penalty money. Authorizes injunctive relief. Permits an affected individual or sportsman's organization to bring a civil action to recover actual and punitive damages and attorney's fees.
Andrew Prior Act or Andrew's Law - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to discharge the repayment obligations of the estate of a borrower and any cosigner of a private educational loan if the borrower dies or is totally and permanently disabled. Requires the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to develop necessary and appropriate safeguards to prevent fraud and abuse in the discharge of those obligations. Authorizes the Director to promulgate regulations to reinstate those obligations in any case in which the Director determines that doing so is necessary to protect the public interest.
Directs the President, in coordination with designated Secretaries, to establish: (1) a demonstration program for fuel cell proton exchange membrane technology for commercial, residential, and transportation applications within the Secretaries' respective areas. And (2) a comprehensive proton exchange membrane fuel cell bus demonstration program to address hydrogen production, storage, and use in transit bus applications. Mandates that each Federal agency that maintains a motor vehicle fleet develop a plan for fleet transition to vehicles powered by fuel cell technology. Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish a fuel cell technology grant program for State or local government to meet their energy requirements, including such technology as a motor vehicle power source. Authorizes appropriations.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on July 23, 2015. Veterans Entrepreneurship Act of 2015 Amends the Small Business Act to prohibit the Small Business Administration (SBA) from collecting a guarantee fee in connection with a loan made under the SBA Express Program to a veteran or the spouse of a veteran on or after October 1, 2015, except during any upcoming fiscal year for which the President's budget, submitted to Congress, includes a cost for the Program that is above zero. Requires the SBA to assess for Congress the level of outreach to and consultation with female veterans regarding access to capital by women's business centers and Veterans Business Outreach Centers. Amends the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015 to increase the limit from $18.75 billion to $23.5 billion for FY2015 commitments for general business loans for a combination of amortizing term loans and the aggregated maximum line of credit provided by revolving loans. Amends the Small Business Act to prohibit the SBA, starting October 1, 2015, from guaranteeing a loan if: the lender determines that the borrower is unable to obtain credit elsewhere solely because the lender's liquidity depends upon the guaranteed portion of the loan being sold on the secondary market, or the sole purpose for requesting the guarantee is to allow the lender to exceed its legal lending limit.
Strengthening the Health Care Safety Net Act of 2009 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to establish a disproportionate share hospital (DSH) redistribution pool from unexpended Medicaid DSH allotments to fund an increase in allotments for low DSH states. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award demonstration grants to health access networks to improve access, quality, and continuity of care for uninsured individuals through better coordination of care by such networks.
Fair Accountability and Innovative Research Drug Pricing Act of 2016 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to require manufacturers of certain drugs and biological products to report to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) price increases that result in a 10 or more increase in the price of a drug over a 12-month period. Reports are required for prescription drugs and drugs commonly administered in hospitals, except vaccines, drugs for rare conditions, and drugs with annual sales for Medicare and Medicaid enrollees of less than $1. Manufacturers that do not submit a required report are subject to a civil penalty. The Inspector General of HHS must review drug price information to determine compliance. Collected penalty funds must be used to carry out activities related to this reporting requirement and to improve consumer and provider information about drug value and drug price transparency. HHS must publish manufacturer reports, a summary of those reports, and supporting analyses.
Biennial Commission on Energy Policy Act of 2013 - Amends the Department of Energy Organization Act to establish the Biennial Commission on Energy Policy. Directs the Commission to: (1) analyze the accessibility, affordability, reliability, resiliency, and sustainability of energy sources in the United States, including coal, oil, natural gas, wind, solar, nuclear, hydropower, geothermal, and biofuels. (2) assess policy options to increase domestic energy supplies and energy efficiency. (3) evaluate energy storage, transmission, and distribution requirements including intermittent energy sources. (4) analyze the prospective role of stakeholders in creating an integrated and comprehensive energy policy, including academia, industry representatives, the public, and federal laboratories and agencies. (5) assess the effectiveness of and need for energy programs, including tax incentives, funding mechanisms, and energy subsidies. And (6) make recommendations for changes to the organization of executive branch entities to facilitate the development and implementation of national energy objectives.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to nondiscrimination requirements for tax-exempt employee pension, profit-sharing, and stock bonus plans, to include protections for older, longer service participants in such plans, including the grandfathering of such participants undernbsp, defined benefit plans.
Savings for Seniors Act of 2017 This bill amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to establish in the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund a Social Security Surplus Protection Account. The Managing Trustee of the Social Security trust funds must: (1) transfer annual Social Security surpluses to the account. And (2) may not invest the balance in the account until a law takes effect after FY2017 that authorizes, for amounts in the trust fund, an investment vehicle other than US obligations resulting in the transfer of trust fund assets to the general fund of the Treasury. The bill establishes in the executive branch a commission to study the most effective vehicles for investment of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund other than investments in the form of US obligations.
Taiwan Air Power Modernization Act of 2011 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) a critical element to maintaining peace and stability in Asia in the face of China's military expansion is ensuring a militarily strong Taiwan, (2) the United States has a statutory obligation under the Taiwan Relations Act to help Taiwan maintain sufficient self-defense capabilities, and (3) the proposed fighter aircraft sale to Taiwan would have significant economic benefits to the US economy. Directs the President to carry out the sale of no fewer than 66 F-16CD multirole fighter aircraft to Taiwan.
The expanded summary of the version reported by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is repeated here.) All Economic Regulations are Transparent Act of 2015 or the ALERT Act of 2015 Requires the head of each federal agency to submit a monthly report to the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for each rule such agency expects to propose or finalize during the following year. Sets forth the required content of such reports, including: (1) a summary of the nature of the rule, (2) the objectives of and legal basis for issuance of the rule, (3) the stage of the rulemaking as of the date of submission, and (4) whether the rule is subject to periodic review as a rule with a significant economic impact. Requires each agency head to submit a monthly report for any rule expected to be finalized during the following year for which the agency has issued a general notice of proposed rulemaking. Requires such reports to include an approximate schedule for completing action on the rule and an estimate of its cost and economic effects. Requires the Administrator to make such monthly reports publicly available on the Internet. Requires the Administrator to publish, not later than October 1 of each year, in the Federal Register: (1) information that the Administrator receives from each agency under this Act. (2) the number of rules and a list of each such rule that was proposed by each agency and each rule that was finalized by each agency. (3) the number of agency actions that repealed a rule, reduced the scope or cost of a rule, or accelerated the expiration date of a rule, (4) the total cost of all rules proposed or finalized. And (5) the number of rules for which an estimate of the cost of the rule was not available. Requires the Administrator to make publicly available on the Internet, not later than October 1 of each year: (1) the analysis of the costs or benefits of each proposed or final rule issued by an agency for the preceding year, (2) the docket number and regulation identifier number for each such rule, (3) the number of rules reviewed by OMB for the preceding year, (4) the number of rules for which a review by the head of an agency was completed, (5) the number of rules submitted to the Comptroller General, and (6) the number of rules for which a resolution of disapproval was introduced in Congress. Prohibits a rule from taking effect until the information required by this Act is posted on the Internet for not less than six months, unless the agency proposing the rule seeks an exemption under the Freedom of Information Act or the President determines by executive order that such rule is necessary because of an imminent threat to health or safety or other emergency, for the enforcement of criminal laws, for national security, or to implement an international trade agreement. Makes such requirement effective eight months after enactment of this Act.
Long Island Aviation History Act This bill directs the Department of the Interior to conduct a special resource study of the aviation history of Long Island, with a particular focus on the Hempstead Plains, the areas surrounding Suffolk County Air Force Base, the hamlet of Bethpage, the hamlet of Port Washington, and the village of Farmingdale.
Veterans' Education and Training Act of 1994 - Provides for the continued use of veterans' basic educational assistance for approved flight training for regular veterans, post-Vietnam era veterans, and members of the reserves. Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to use the facilities of any federally recognized Indian tribe in providing training or work experience for veterans with service-connected disabilities. Allows for the payment of a subsistence allowance to veterans performing training or work on the facilities of such an Indian tribe. Includes within the definition of educational institution for purposes of the provision of educational assistance to veterans, until September 31, 1996, entities that provide training required for the completion of any State-approved alternative teacher certification program. Prohibits a veteran eligible for educational assistance from enrolling in any course at an institution outside the United States unless the institution is an approved institution of higher learning and the course is approved by the Secretary. Provides for the conditional approval of correspondence courses as courses for which veterans' educational assistance may be provided. Increases from $12 million to $13 million the annual limit on the amount authorized to be provided to State and local educational agencies for furnishing courses of education to veterans under the educational assistance program. Removes an educational agency reporting requirement with respect to the provision of such services. Continues the Veterans' Advisory Committee on Education through December 31, 2003. Increases from $5 million to $6 million the annual funding ceiling for veterans' educational and vocational counseling services obtained by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Amends the Service Members Occupational Conversion and Training Act of 1992 to: (1) repeal the 18-month limit on training under such Act for employment in stable and permanent positions, (2) revise certain certification requirements under such training program. (3) allow assistance to be paid on behalf of eligible persons for training under two or more training programs if the per-person annual training limit is not exceeded. And (4) allow a person to enter into a job training program on the day that official employer notification is given .
Financial Crisis Investigation Act of 2009 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to direct the Oversight Panel of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to: (1) investigate all causes, domestic and global, of the current financial and economic crisis in the United States, including the collapse of major financial and commercial firms and the deterioration of the credit and housing markets. (2) investigate the role in the financial and economic crisis, if any, of specified governmental and private sector entities. (3) review the nation's existing financial regulatory structure from top to bottom, and its contribution to the stability or instability of financial markets, (4) review all aspects of financial regulation. And (5) refer to federal and state law enforcement officials any person that the Oversight Panel finds may have violated federal law in relation to such crisis. Requires the Oversight Panel to report its findings, conclusions, and recommendations to the President and Congress.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit to individuals who provide mentoring services to young adults between the ages of 18 and 22. Requires such individuals to participate in a one-on-one relationship as a positive role model with such young adults and to conduct meetings and activities with them on not less than a monthly basis.
Sweetgrass Hills Protection Act of 1995 - Establishes the Sweetgrass Hills Natural Area within the Bureau of Land Management's Sweetgrass Hills Area of Critical Environmental Concern in north central Montana for the purpose of conserving, protecting, and enhancing the exceptional scenic, wildlife, water quality, and cultural characteristics of such Area. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to administer the area in accordance with this Act and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the Bureau of Land Management. Authorizes appropriations.
Balanced Trade Restoration Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish a Balanced Trade Certificate Program within the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce. Provides under such Program for the issuance of certificates to measure and control US imports and exports to achieve a balance in the foreign trade of the United States. Exempts importers of oil or gas during the first five years of the program.
Amends the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 to prohibit the Export-Import Bank of the United States from guaranteeing, insuring, or extending credit to an entity with respect to the export of any good or service to China unless the Board of Directors of the Bank determines that such entity is adhering to certain environmental and fair employment principles under a corporate code of conduct. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Bank and the Clearinghouse on Corporate Responsibility that is being developed by the Department of Commerce should work together to ensure that businesses are made aware of, and have access to, resources and organizations that can assist them in developing and monitoring global codes of corporate conduct.
SMA Treatment Acceleration Act of 2009 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to establish a national clinical trials network for spinal muscular atrophy by upgrading and unifying spinal muscular atrophy clinical trial sites and recruiting new investigators and sites. Requires the Director to ensure that such network: (1) conducts coordinated, multisite, clinical trials of therapies and clinical approaches to the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy. And (2) rapidly and efficiently disseminates scientific findings to the field. Requires the Director to: (1) establish a data coordinating center with respect to spinal muscular atrophy. And (2) expand and intensify NIH programs with respect to preclinical translation research related to spinal muscular atrophy. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to enhance and support a spinal muscular atrophy patient registry to provide for expanded epidemiological research towards improving awareness, management, treatment, and prevention of spinal muscular atrophy. Requires the Secretary to ensure the collection and analysis of longitudinal data related to individuals of all ages. Directs the Secretary to establish the Interagency Spinal Muscular Atrophy Research Coordinating Committee. Sets forth the duties of the Committee, including to develop a comprehensive strategy related to spinal muscular atrophy research and other related neurological diseases and disorders. Requires the Secretary to establish a program to provide information and education on spinal muscular atrophy to health professionals and the general public.
Human Cloning Prohibition Act of 1998 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit any person or entity: (1) in or affecting interstate commerce, from using human somatic cell nuclear transfer technology. And (2) from importing an embryo produced through such technology. Sets penalties for violations of this Act of: (1) up to ten years in prison, a fine, or both. And (2) not more than twice the amount of any gross pecuniary gain derived from such violation. Establishes within the Institute of Medicine the National Commission to Promote a National Dialogue on Bioethics. Directs the Commission to provide an independent forum for broad public participation and discourse concerning important bioethical issues, including cloning. Sets forth reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Federal Government should advocate and join an international effort to prohibit the use of human somatic cell nuclear transfer technology to produce a human embryo.
Intermodal Equipment Safety and Responsibility Act of 2003 - Subjects an equipment controller to liability for the systematic inspection, maintenance, and repair of equipment interchanged or intended for interchange. Requires an equipment controller: (1) prior to offering a motor carrier agent the equipment for interchange, to inspect the equipment and perform maintenance and repairs to the equipment to ensure that it complies with all applicable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. And (2) to promptly reimburse the motor carrier for actual expenses incurred and time spent by the motor carrier for any repair required to interchanged equipment to comply with the Regulations while in a motor carrier's possession. Makes an equipment controller liable for all violations of the Regulations attributable to the controller's equipment. Directs the controller to pay any applicable fines, penalties, and damages resulting from such violations, except for violations attributable to the controller's equipment that are proximately caused by the motor carrier's negligence or willful misconduct. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to conduct inspections. Prohibits an equipment controller from: (1) retaliating against a motor carrier who requests maintenance or repair of equipment intended for interchange to comply with the Regulations. And (2) delegating its responsibility to systematically maintain and repair equipment intended for interchange to a motor carrier in an equipment interchange agreement.
Preventing Illegal Radio Abuse Through Enforcement Act or the PIRATE Act This bill amends the Communications Act of 1934 to address unlicensed radio broadcasting , including: increasing the fine for a pirate radio broadcasting violationnbsp. To not more than $2 million, imposing a fine of up to $100,000 per day for pirating violations subject to the $2 million limit, and establishingnbsp, anbsp, fine of up tonbsp, $2 millionnbsp, for any person who facilitates pirate radio broadcasting . nbsp, nbsp, nbsp. The FCC must: (1) annually report to Congress summarizing implementation of this bill and associated enforcement activities for the previous fiscal year. And (2) at least once a year, assign appropriate enforcement personnel to focus specific and sustained attention on the elimination of pirate radio broadcasting within the top five radio markets. The FCC may not preempt any state or local law prohibiting pirate radio broadcasting. The FCC shall: (1) revise its rules to require that, absent good cause, in any case alleging a violation, it shall proceed directly to issue a Notice of Apparent Liability without first issuing a Notice of Unlicensed Operations. And (2) publish a database of all licensed radio stations operating in the AM and FM bands, which shall be easily accessible from the FCC home page, identifying each licensed station and all entities that have received a Notice of Unlicensed Operation, Notice of Apparent Liability, or Forfeiture Order by the FCC. No additional funds are authorized to carry out this bill.
Increases the maximum liability of nontank vessels for oil spills to the greater of : (1) $806 per gross ton. Or (2) $672,000 . Requires any passenger vessel, small passenger vessel, and freight vessel subject to inspection to be equipped with a voyage data recorder of a type prescribed by the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations for the immediate investigation of responses to marine casualties. Requires certain vessels, including small passenger and towing vessels, to be equipped with a position indicating transponder and an appropriate situation display or other device suitable for accessing information made available by the transponder system. Authorizes the Secretary to prohibit the loading or unloading of a vessel in any port or place subject to US jurisdiction if the vessel is registered in a country that fails to adequately enforce safety standards prescribed by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). Requires the Secretary to report to Congress on: (1) the five such countries with the greatest number of registered vessels detained by the Coast Guard in 1999 for violation of such safety standards. And (2) whether those countries have, since December 31, 1999, adequately enforced such standards. Directs the Secretary to seek to negotiate at the IMO the elimination of single hull bunker tanks on commercial vessels capable of carrying more than 1,000 barrels of fuel on board.
Survivor Benefits Improvement Act of 2013 - Allows dependency and indemnity compensation (DIC) paid through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to the surviving spouses of veterans to be increased for months occurring during the five-year period beginning on the date of entitlement. Provides that the remarriage after age 55 of the surviving spouse of a veteran shall not bar the furnishing of VA DIC, health care, educational assistance, and housing loans. Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide, to any spina bifida-affected child of a veteran who served on active duty in Thailand beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975, and was exposed to a herbicide agent during such service, the same health care, vocational training and rehabilitation, and monetary allowance required to be paid to a similarly-affected child of a Vietnam veteran. Directs the Secretary to carry out a two-year pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing grief counseling services for the surviving spouses of veterans who die while serving on active duty.
Encroachment on Military Bases Prevention Act - Amends the Endangered Species Act to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) from designating as critical habitat any lands or areas owned and controlled by the Department of Defense, or designated for its use, that are subject to an integrated natural resources management plan under the Sikes Act if the Secretary determines that such plan addresses special management considerations or protection. Requires the Secretary to consider impact on national security when making critical habitat determinations. Amends the Act commonly known as the National Park System General Authorities Act to require: (1) the Secretary to notify the Secretary of Defense of the exact military lands included in any study of an area for potential inclusion in the National Park System (NPS). And (2) the Secretary of Defense to evaluate the existing environmental protections for such lands and the importance of such lands to military readiness and preparation. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to require the Secretary to exclude such lands if it is determined that current environmental protections are adequate and that their inclusion in the NPS would adversely affect military readiness and preparation. Amends the National Marine Sanctuary Act to prohibit the Secretary from including as a national marine sanctuary any area that the Secretary of Defense has designated for use for military readiness activities.
Diamond-Blackfan Anemia Research and Care Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Director of the National Institutes of Health, in coordination with other specified officials, to expand and intensify research and related activities of the Institute with regard to Diamond-Blackfan Anemia. States that the Director shall as part of such effort award grants to, or enter into contracts with, public or private entities to support a comprehensive research initiative. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to: (1) maintain and expand the Diamond-Blackfan Anemia Registry. And (2) establish a comprehensive clinical care center for Diamond-Blackfan Anemia.
Amends Internal Revenue Code provisions concerning the exclusion of gain from certain small business stock to, among other things: (1) increase from 50 to 75 percent the amount of gain excluded from the sale certain small business stock. (2) reduce from five to three years the holding period applicable to such a sale, (3) make such exclusion available to corporations. And (4) make the stock of larger businesses eligible. Doubles the annual limitation on incentive stock options.
Gas Price and Refinery Capacity Relief Act of 2013 - Amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to require a refinery owner or operator to report to the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration (EIA): (1) at least one year in advance the schedule for any planned removal from service for maintenance, repair, or modification of any refinery or a unit. And (2) as soon as practicable any unplanned refinery outages. Directs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) review, analyze, and make available to refinery operators information on unplanned refinery outages in order to prevent significant market disruptions. And (2) analyze the costs and benefits of creating a national strategic refined petroleum products reserve for refined petroleum products.
Intermodal Equipment Safety and Responsibility Act of 2003 - Subjects controllers of interchangeable intermodal equipment to commercial motor vehicle safety regulation and liability, including systematic inspection, maintenance, and repair requirements. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to conduct inspections. Prohibits a controller from retaliating against any motor carrier in response to a request for safety maintenance or repair of equipment intended for interchange, including failing to provide requested safe equipment in a timely fashion. Prohibits controller delegation of this maintenance responsibility. Directs the Secretary to issue implementing regulations as part of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations.
Avonte's Law Act of 2014 - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General to make grants to law enforcement agencies to: (1) reduce the risk of injury and death relating to the wandering characteristics of some individuals with autism and other disabilities, and (2) safeguard the well-being of individuals with disabilities during interactions with law enforcement. Requires grant awards to be used to: (1) provide education and resources to law enforcement agencies, first responders, schools, clinicians, and the public in order to reduce the risk of wandering by such individuals, help to identify signs of abuse in such individuals, increase their personal safety and survival skills, and facilitate effective communication with individuals who have communication-related disabilities. (2) provide training and emergency protocols for school administrators, staff, and families. (3) provide response tools and training for law enforcement and search-and-rescue agencies, including tracking technology. Or (4) provide response tools and training to law enforcement agencies in order to recognize and respond to individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Directs the Attorney General to establish standards and best practices relating to the use of tracking technology to monitor children with autism and other disabilities. Requires each law enforcement agency that receives a grant to comply with any such standards and best practices.
States that specified funds authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site (Colorado) shall be available to the Secretary for the purchase of essential mineral rights at Rocky Flats. Prescribes related conditions under which any natural resource damage liability claim shall be deemed to be satisfied. Exempts mineral rights purchased under this Act from the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Amends the Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge Act of 2001 to repeal the mandate for a Memorandum of Understanding in connection with the transfer to the Secretary of the Interior of management responsibilities and jurisdiction over Rocky Flats. Repeals, also, the prohibiton against any reduction in funds available to the Secretary of Energy for cleanup and closure of Rocky Flats as a result of such transfer. Revises the composition of the Rocky Flats National Wildlife Refuge and excludes specified lands subject to certain essential mineral rights.
Directs the Secretary of Defense to enter into an agreement with the Office of Personnel Management to conduct a demonstration project under which covered members and beneficiaries under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) who are or become entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act will be eligible to enroll in health benefits plans offered through the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) program. Requires the demonstration project to be conducted in two geographic areas and to last at least two, but not more than three, contract years. Provides for: (1) management of participation in the project, (2) Government contributions for beneficiary coverage under the FEHB program, and (3) reporting requirements.
Directs the Secretary to: (1) review such statistics, (2) make copies available to the public. (3) identify exemplary fire safety policies, procedures, and practices, and disseminate information concerning those policies, procedures, and practices that have proven effective in the reduction of campus fires. And (4) report to the Congress analyses of the current status of fire safety systems in college and university facilities, and of the appropriate fire safety standards to apply to these facilities, as well as cost estimates and recommendations.
Secondary Payer Advancement, Rationalization, and Clarification Act or the SPARC Act This bill specifiesnbsp. Recovery rules and timelines with respect to secondary claims responsibility under the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Current law specifies only thatnbsp. Secondary payor provisions apply under the benefit in the same manner as they apply with respect to Medicare Advantage plans.
Manufacturing Universities Act of 2014 - Authorizes the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to establish a program to designate up to 25 institutions of higher education as US manufacturing universities that are to be awarded funds over a four-year period. Requires an institution applying for such program to submit a plan describing its engineering programs, its relationship to manufacturing industries, and its ability to positively impact local and regional economic development. Requires NIST to recommend adaptations to certain Small Business Act programs to assist small businesses that collaborate with such universities.
Servicemembers and Veterans Prescription Drug Safety Act of 2016 This bill directs the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to carry out a joint program under which an eligible person who has lawfully obtained a covered controlled substance may deliver it for disposal at a facility to be specified by DOD and DOJ. An eligible person for this purpose shall be: a member of the Armed Forces, an individual receiving or entitled to military retired or retainer pay, a member's dependent-beneficiary who is receiving certain health care services, or any person lawfully entitled to dispose of the property of any of such individuals who dies in lawful possession of a controlled substance for personal use. DOD and DOJ shall develop guidelines and procedures to prevent the diversion, misuse, theft, or loss of such substances delivered under the program. DOJ and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) shall carry out a similar joint program covering any veteran, veteran's spouse or dependent, a person in receipt of medical services at a VA facility, or any person lawfully entitled to dispose of the property of any of such individuals who dies in lawful possession of a controlled substance for personal use. DOJ and the VA shall also develop guidelines and procedures to prevent the diversion, misuse, theft, or loss of such substances delivered under the program.
Nutria Eradication and Control Act of 2009 - Establishes a nutria eradication program under which the Secretary of the Interior may provide financial assistance on a cost-sharing basis to Maryland, Louisiana, and the coastal states to eradicate or control nutria and restore nutria-damaged wetland. Requires the Maryland program to consist of management, research, and public education activities carried out in accordance with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's document Eradication Strategies for Nutria in the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay Watersheds. Directs the Secretary and the National Invasive Species Council to: (1) give consideration to the report of the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries entitled Nutria in Louisiana, and the updated version of the Eradication Strategies for the Nutria in the Chesapeake and Delaware Bay Watersheds document. (2) continue, in cooperation with the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries and the Maryland Department of Natural Resources, a long-term nutria control or eradication program. And (3) develop, in cooperation with the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control, the Virginia Department of Game and Inland Fisheries, the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, and the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, long-term nutria control or eradication programs. Authorizes specified FY2010-FY2014 appropriations for: (1) Maryland and Louisiana, and (2) the coastal states.
Women's Health Protection Act of 2015 This bill prohibits any government from imposing on abortion services: a requirement that a medical professional perform specific tests or medical procedures. A requirement that the same clinician who performs a patient's abortion also perform additional tests, services or procedures. A limitation on an abortion provider's ability to prescribe or dispense drugs or provide services via telemedicine. A requirement or limitation concerning the physical plant, equipment, staffing, or hospital transfer arrangements of facilities where abortions are performed, or the credentials, hospital privileges, or status of personnel at those facilities. A requirement that, prior to obtaining an abortion, a patient make medically unnecessary in-person visits to any individual or entity, a limitation on medical training for abortion procedures, a prohibition prior to fetal viability. A prohibition after fetal viability when continuation of the pregnancy would pose a risk to the woman's life or health. A restriction on a woman's ability to obtain an immediate abortion when a delay would pose a risk to the woman's health. Or a restriction on obtaining an abortion prior to fetal viability based on a woman's reasons or perceived reasons or that requires her to state her reasons before obtaining an abortion. A measure or action that is similar to a requirement or limitation listed above is prohibited if it singles out abortion services or makes abortion services more difficult to access and does not significantly advance women's health or the safety of abortion services.
This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise provisions regarding Food and Drug Administration (FDA): (1) inspections of establishments that manufacture or process medical devices, and (2) certification of medical devices for export. The biannual inspection schedule for medical device establishments handling higher risk devices is replaced with a risk-based schedule. In establishing the risk-based schedule, the FDA must consider an establishment's participation in international medical device audit programs. The FDA must adopt a uniform process and uniform standards for inspections of domestic and foreign medical device establishments. Upon request, the FDA must provide to the person in charge of a medical device establishment feedback regarding the person's proposals to address issues identified during an inspection. The FDA must provide the basis for denying requests for certification of products for export as meeting FDA requirements for domestic products. A person denied such a certification may request supervisory review of that decision. Products from a medical device establishment that an inspector found to be contaminated or insanitary may be certified for export if the person in charge of the establishment has agreed to a plan to correct the issues identified during the inspection.
Exclusion and Asylum Reform Amendments of 1993 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to create grounds for exclusion of an alien who: (1) uses or attempts to use a fraudulent document to enter the United States, or to board a common carrier for such purpose. Or (2) uses a document to board a common carrier and then fails to present such document to an immigration official upon arrival at a US port of entry. Prohibits the granting of asylum to an alien who is found to be using fraudulent entry documents or who fails to present entry-related documents, unless a specially trained immigration officer determines such actions were pursuant to departure from a country in which: (1) the alien had a credible fear of persecution. Or (2) there was a significant danger that the alien would be returned to a country in which he or she would have a credible fear of persecution. Provides for port of entry exclusion and deportation without administrative or judicial appeal for such admission document fraud. Increases penalties for certain alien smuggling offenses.
Responsible Stem Cell Research Act of 2001- Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish by contract a National Stem Cell Donor Bank to preserve qualifying human stem cells and make such cells available for biomedical research and therapeutic purposes. Authorizes the Secretary, through the National Institutes of Health, to conduct and support human stem cell research.
This bill amends the Small Business Act to prohibit the Small Business Administration (SBA) from assessing a guarantee fee in connection with a loan of not more than $150,000 made to a veteran or spouse of a veteran beginning the first fiscal year after enactment of this bill under the SBA's Export Working Capital, International Trade, or Export Express programs. If the President's budget for the upcoming fiscal year includes a cost for such a program that is above zero, this prohibition shall not apply to loans made during such upcoming fiscal year.
National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2012 - Title I: Development of Domestic Sources Of Strategic and Critical Minerals - Deems a domestic mine that will provide strategic and critical minerals to be an infrastructure project as described in Presidential Order Improving Performance of Federal Permitting and Review of Infrastructure Projects dated March 22, 2012. Sets forth the responsibilities of the lead agency with responsibility for issuing a mineral exploration or mine permit with respect to project coordination, agency consultation, project proponents, contractors, and the status and scope of any environmental impact statement. Requires the lead agency to determine that any such action would not constitute a major federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) if the procedural and substantive safeguards of the lead agency's permitting process alone, any applicable state permitting process alone, or a combination of the two processes together provide an adequate mechanism to ensure that environmental factors are taken into account. Requires the lead agency's project lead, at a project proponent's request, to enter into an agreement with the project proponent and other cooperating agencies that sets time limits for each part of the permit review process. Applies this Act to a mineral exploration or mine permit for which an application was submitted before enactment of this Act if the applicant so requests in writing. Requires the lead agency to begin implementing this Act with respect to such application within 30 days after receiving such a request. Requires the lead agency, with respect to strategic and critical materials within a federally administered unit of the National Forest System, to: (1) exempt from federal regulations governing Special Areas all areas of identified mineral resources in Land Use Designations. (2) apply such exemption to all additional routes and areas that the agency finds necessary to facilitate the construction, operation, maintenance, and restoration of the areas of the identified mineral resources. And (3) continue to apply such exemptions after approval of the Minerals Plan of Operations for the unit. Declares the priority of the lead agency is to maximize mineral resource development while mitigating environmental impacts, so that more of the mineral resource can be brought to the market place. Prescribes the Federal Register notice process for mineral exploration and mining projects. Title II: Judicial Review Of Agency Actions Relating To Exploration And Mine Permits - Bars a civil action claiming legal wrong caused by an agency action unless it is filed by the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of the final federal agency action to which it relates. Requires the court to hear and determine any covered civil action as expeditiously as possible. Prohibits the court, in a covered civil action, from granting or approving prospective relief unless it finds that such relief is narrowly drawn, extends no further than necessary to correct the violation of a legal requirement, and is the least intrusive means necessary to correct such violation. Declares inapplicable to such a civil action specified requirements of the Equal Access to Justice Act relating to award of costs and fees to a prevailing plaintiff. Prohibits payment from the federal government for court costs of a party in such a civil action, including attorneys' fees and expenses.
Telemarketer Identification Act of 2001 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to make it unlawful for any person or entity making a commercial telephone solicitation to interfere with or circumvent a caller identification service. Provides a cause of action for a person or entity, or a State attorney general on behalf of its residents, for violations of such prohibition. Authorizes the FCC to grant a temporary waiver from compliance for good cause shown .
Establishes the Presidential Site Grant Commission to review grant applications and make award recommendations to the Secretary. Authorizes appropriations.
SuperPAC Elimination Act of 2017 This bill amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to: (1) eliminate the limitations on direct contributions from individuals and political committees to candidates in federal elections. And (2) require 24-hour notification to the Secretary of the Senate or the Federal Election Commission, and the Secretary of State, as appropriate, for all direct contributions to candidates in excess of $200.
Civic Justice Corps Act of 2011 - Directs the Attorney General to award three-year Civic Justice Corps grants to national nonprofit organizations that have experience in developing and administering programs to deliver education and work experience to court-involved, formerly incarcerated, and otherwise disadvantaged youth and young adults between the ages of 16 and 25. Requires such organizations to develop, implement, and collect data from Civic Justice Corps programs administered by at least nine local subgrantees in diverse geographic locations. Requires national intermediaries and subgrantees to submit annual reports on performance measures of participant progress.
Detergent Poisoning And Child Safety Act of 2015 or the Detergent PACS Act of 2015 Requires the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to establish safety standards for liquid detergent packets to protect children who are younger than five years of age from injury or illness. Directs the CPSC to establish such standards by promulgating a rule or adopting voluntary ASTM International standards. Provides for any final rule that is promulgated to include: (1) requirements for special packaging and warning labels, (2) standards to make the color and design of packets less attractive to children, and (3) liquid composition standards to make the consequences of exposure less severe. Requires the rule or standards to be treated as consumer product safety standards under the Consumer Product Safety Act.
Clean Up Government Act of 2011 - Amends the federal criminal code to revise and expand prohibitions against bribery, theft of public money, and other public corruption offenses. Expands mail and wire fraud statutes to cover offenses involving any other thing of value . Modifies general venue rules for criminal prosecutions to allow prosecutions in any district in which an act in furtherance of an offense is committed. Increases the maximum term of imprisonment from: (1) 10 to 20 years for theft or bribery involving federally-assisted programs. (2) 10 to 20 years for theft and embezzlement of federal money, property, or records, (3) 15 to 20 years for bribery of public officials. And (4) 2 to 5 years for providing gratuities because of an official's or person's official position or for any official act, or for bribery of a witness at a trial, hearing, or other proceeding before any court, any committee of Congress, or any US agency, commission, or officer. Expands the definition of official act to include any act within the range of official duty, including any recommendation, which may be a single act, more than one act, or a course of conduct, and which may include a decision or recommendation that a government should not take action. Applies the prohibition against embezzlement or theft of federal money or property to government officials and employees of the District of Columbia. Directs the United States Sentencing Commission to review and amend its guidelines and policy statements relating to public corruption and racketeering offenses to reflect the intent of Congress that penalties for such offenses be increased. Establishes a 10-year limitation period for the prosecution of public corruption crimes involving bribery, extortion, theft of government property, mail fraud, and racketeering. Increases to 10 years the maximum term of imprisonment for: (1) solicitation by federal officers and employees of political contributions from other federal officers and employees, (2) promise of employment made possible by an Act of Congress for political activity, (3) deprivation of such employment for political activity, (4) intimidation to secure political contributions, (5) solicitation and acceptance of contributions in federal offices, and (6) coercion of political activity by federal employees. Includes embezzlement or theft of government money or property, and specified activity relating to major fraud against the United States, as predicates for racketeering prosecutions and wiretaps. Expands the types of perjury and obstruction of justice offenses for which venue lies in the district in which the official proceeding was intended to be affected or in which the conduct constituting the alleged offense occurred. Includes as a prohibited scheme or artifice to defraud any scheme or artifice by a public official to engage in undisclosed self-dealing, as defined in this Act. Amends the federal judicial code to permit the disclosure of information regarding a potential criminal offense by a judge to the Department of Justice (DOJ), a federal, state, or local grand jury, or federal, state, or local law enforcement agents. Permits the US attorney, Deputy Attorney General, Assistant Attorney General, or the Attorney General to certify to the district court that an appeal by the United States is not taken for purpose of delay and that the evidence is a substantial proof of a fact material in the proceeding.
Post-Deployment Health Assessment Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Defense to issue guidance for the provision of an in-person mental health screening for each member of the Armed Forces deployed in connection with a contingency operation, in order to identify post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), suicidal tendencies, and other behavioral health issues for which additional care and treatment may be necessary. Excludes from such screenings members not subjected or exposed to combat stress during their deployment. Requires the Secretary to share screening results with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in order to ensure continuity of mental health care and treatment for such members during their transition from health care and treatment provided by the Department of Defense (DOD) to health care and treatment provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
Rural Aviation Improvement Act - Repeals the Essential Air Service Local Participation Program. Prohibits the Secretary of Transportation from compensating an air carrier for providing essential air service to an eligible community in the 48 contiguous states if such community: (1) is located fewer than 70 miles from the nearest large or medium hub airport. Or (2) is fewer than 210 miles from the nearest large or medium hub airport and requires a per passenger subsidy for such service in excess of $200 for calendar year 2008, including any increase for each ensuing calendar year. Authorizes a state or local government to submit a proposal to the Secretary to: (1) compensate an air carrier for essential air service to an eligible community above the $200 per passenger subsidy cap, (2) compensate a preferred air carrier for providing such service. And (3) restore the eligibility of a community to receive subsidized essential air service. Requires the Secretary, in determining compensation for essential air service based on highway mileage, to use the highway mileage of the most commonly used route between the eligible community and the nearest medium hub airport or large hub airport. Establishes within the Office of the Secretary the Office of Rural Aviation. Extends through FY2011 the Secretary's authority under the essential air service program to make agreements to provide assistance to underserved airports. Requires adjustment of compensation to air carriers for providing essential air service in order to take into account significant increases in fuel costs. Directs the Secretary to treat passenger boardings on aircraft operated by charter air carriers at airports receiving essential air service as passenger boardings for purposes of making apportionments of airport improvement grant funds.
Department of Veterans Affairs Nurse Recruitment and Retention Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to designate a health care service region, or section within such a region, in which health care facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs are adversely affected by a shortage of qualified nurses, and to conduct a pilot program in such region or section on the use of innovative human-capital tools and techniques in the recruitment of qualified nurses for such positions. Requires the Secretary, as part of the pilot program, to: (1) identify and use private-sector nurse recruitment practices that have proven effective. And (2) revise procedures and systems to reduce the length of the hiring process. Requires a report from the Secretary to the congressional veterans' committees on the extent to which the pilot program achieved the goal of improving the recruitment and retention of nurses in Department health-care facilities. Authorizes the Secretary, with respect to appointed nurses, to provide: (1) a three 12-hour day work schedule, with authorized overtime after a 36-hour workweek. (2) a seven day, 10-hour work schedule for each two-week period, with authorized overtime after working 80 hours within such period. And (3) a nine-month work period with three months off, with such nurses paid at 75 percent of the full-time rate. Includes dental hygienists, dental assistants, and blind rehabilitation specialists within those positions which the Secretary is authorized to make appointments. Authorizes the Secretary to make payments to States to assist State homes in the hiring and retention of nurses and the reduction of nursing shortages at State homes. Limits payment amounts. Requires, from each State home receiving such assistance, an annual report to the Secretary on the use of such funds. Removes the requirement that the Department's Under Secretary for Health be a doctor of medicine.
Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning Act of 2011 - Amends title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to include teacher and principal training in practices that address the social and emotional development needs of students among the activities funded under the Teacher and Principal Training and Recruiting Fund program. Allows funded training to include training in classroom instruction and schoolwide initiatives that enable students to acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills most conducive to social and emotional competency.
Adoption Equality Act of 2007 - Amends part E of title IV of the Social Security Act to revise requirements for children with special needs in the adoption assistance program. Requires that the child be in the care of a public or licensed private child placement agency or Indian tribal organization pursuant to a voluntary placement agreement, relinquishment, or involuntary removal of the child from the home, where the state has determined that continuation in the home would be contrary to the child's safety or welfare. Specifies related requirements. Prohibits adoption assistance to parents with respect to a child who is not a US citizen or resident, and who was adopted outside of the United States or brought into the United States for the purposes of being adopted. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the states should reinvest in child welfare programs any savings resulting from the implementation of this Act.
Customs Training Enhancement Act - Directs the Commissioner of the US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to establish educational seminars at US ports of entry to improve the ability of CBP personnel to classify and appraise articles imported into the United States in accordance with US customs laws, including their ability to identify and prevent the mislabeling and transshipment of such articles.
Liquefied Natural Gas Act of 2005 - Amends the Natural Gas Act to transfer from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to the Secretary of Energy oversight functions regarding the exportation or importation of natural gas, including free trade agreements and liquefied natural gas. Declares that no person shall site, construct, expand, or operate a liquefied natural gas import terminal without first having secured a FERC authorization. Prohibits any State or local government from requiring any form of authorization with respect to the siting, construction, expansion, or operation of a liquefied natural gas import terminal except as otherwise provided by Federal law. Prescribes guidelines for FERC oversight authority pertaining to scheduling and administrative proceedings. Defines liquefied natural gas import terminal as including all facilities located onshore or in State waters that are used to receive, unload, store, transport, gasify, or process liquefied natural gas imported to the United States from a foreign country, but does excluding the tankers used to deliver liquefied natural gas to such facilities.
Foreign Credit Reform Act of 2004 - Amends Federal law to extend authorization of appropriations for the US contribution to the Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Trust Fund. Amends the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to direct the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate an agreement under which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Monetary Fund shall contribute to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria an amount equal to the amount of a country's annual debt service made to the Bank and the Fund. Authorizes the President to waive certain Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 principal and interest payments owed to the Commodity Credit Corporation by eligible debt-heavy countries for FY 2005 and 2006. Amends such Act to define developing country for purposes of title I assistance.
Small Business Partners in Reconstruction Act of 2006 - Amends the Small Business Act to define Guidelines as the guidelines entitled Emergency Procurement Flexibilities for responsive contracting and the use of simplified acquisition procedures, as issued by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy on May 30, 2003. Directs the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to: (1) ensure that the Guidelines continue to encourage the federal government to utilize small business procurement flexibilities in times of disaster, contingency, and other emergency. And (2) periodically revise, update, modify, and publish such Guidelines. Provides for or requires: (1) reciprocity with respect to contracting certifications for small businesses owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. (2) an update of the Federal Procurement Data System with respect to small business participation in Hurricane Katrina or Rita-related contracting, (3) disaster contracting outreach programs for small businesses, (4) small business performance bonding thresholds. (5) small business participation in disaster-related federal contracts and subcontracts and disaster-related multiple-award contracts, and (6) disaster contracting priorities for local small businesses.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Distributions from Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Title II: Extension of Trust Fund Purposes Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Amendments Act of 1997 - Title I: Distributions from Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to distribute to States at least 85 percent of the funds appropriated to EPA from the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund each fiscal year for the reasonable costs under cooperative agreements of: (1) State actions under the EPA program for petroleum release responses. (2) necessary administrative expenses directly related to corrective action and compensation programs under State financial responsibility requirements. (3) other costs of such programs in any instance, as determined by the State, in which an owner's or operator's financial resources are inadequate to pay the costs of a corrective action without significantly impairing the ability to continue in business. (4) enforcement of an approved State or local underground storage tank (UST) program or similar provisions. And (5) State and local corrective actions pursuant to regulations regarding corrective action in response to UST releases. Prohibits use of such funds to provide financial assistance to an owner or operator in meeting regulatory requirements for upgrading of existing UST systems. Sets forth requirements for allocation of funds to States. Makes inapplicable to Trust Fund amounts provided to owners or operators under programs described in (2), above, provisions for recovery of petroleum release corrective or enforcement action costs. Title II: Extension of Trust Fund Purposes - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to authorize use of amounts in the Trust Fund for making expenditures to carry out this Act.
Low Income Community Development Tax Credit Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow, as part of the general business credit, a tax credit for placing a nonresidential building in service in a distressed area, with a greater credit allowed for a new building than an existing building. Provides for calculation of the basis of such buildings according to the rules governing the low-income housing credit. Defines a distressed area as one in which at least 70 percent of the households have an income that is no more than 80 percent of the area median gross income. Increases the credit with respect to buildings in areas in which income is lower. Treats rehabilitation expenditures, provided they are above a certain threshold, as a separate new building. Imposes an annual State distressed area building credit ceiling.
Global Investments in America's Cities Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to set aside at least 3,000 employment creation immigrant visas each fiscal year for qualified immigrants seeking to invest in a new commercial enterprise which will create employment in an economically distressed urban area and with respect to which such alien: (1) has invested at least $250,000. (2) has completed an investment agreement with a qualified venture capital operating company for an investment of at least $250,000. Or (3) has completed an investment agreement with one or more angel investors for an investment of at least $250,000. Requires petitions for such immigrant visas to be decided within 60 days. Directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report to Congress on the EB-5 visa program.
Internet Drug Sales Accountability Act - Amends the Controlled Substances Act to prohibit a person who controls a third-party Internet sales site from: (1) accepting for posting on the site an offer to sell an item that the person knows is a controlled substance. Or (2) failing to promptly remove from the site an offer to sell an item which a federal or state official notifies the person is a controlled substance. Requires such person to create a system for receipt of such notice in writing and specifying information including the offer and substance involved and the name, title, address, and contact information of the officials who sent the notice. Sets criminal and civil penalties for violations. Requires a third-party Internet sales site to monitor and remove in good faith any posting of an offer to sell an item that the site believes to violate federal or state law or that is the subject of notice under this Act. Shields from liability any such site that in good faith monitors and removes a posting pursuant to this provision.
Directs the President to impose quotas, tariff surcharges, or negotiate enforceable voluntary export restraint agreements in order to ensure that the volume of imported steel products during any month does not exceed the average volume of imported steel for the 36-month period preceding July 1997. Directs the Secretaries of the Treasury and of Commerce to implement a program for administering and enforcing the restraints on such imports. Authorizes the Customs Service to refuse entry into the US customs territory for a three year period of any steel products that exceed the allowable levels of such products. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish and implement a steel import notification and monitoring program. Requires any person who intends to import steel products into the United States to first obtain an import notification certificate. Sets forth specified import notification certificate requirements. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to publish on a weekly basis through the Internet certain information obtained from steel import notification certificate applications regarding imported steel, including country of origin, the port of entry, quantity, value of steel imported, single producer or exporter countries, and whether such imports are entered into a bonded warehouse or foreign trade zone. Authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to charge reasonable fees to defray the costs of carrying out this Act.
Poverty Trap Study Act of 2001 - Establishes the National Commission on Marginal Tax Rates for the Working Poor to: (1) determine the total effective marginal rate of tax from all taxes and benefit program phaseouts that persons are subject to at all earnings levels between $7,000 and $30,000 per year for at least five States, including Wisconsin and California. And (2) report to Congress. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the Commission 30 days after the submission of its report.
Streamlining Permitting of American Energy Act of 2012 - Title I: Application For Permits to Drill Process Reform - Amends the Mineral Leasing Act to revise requirements for the issuance of permits to drill in energy projects on federal lands. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to extend the initial 30-day permit application review period for up to 2 periods of 15 days each, if the Secretary has given written notice of the delay to the applicant. Deems a permit application approved if the Secretary has made no decision on it 60 days after its receipt. Prescribes a notice requirement for denial of an application. Directs the Secretary to collect a single $6,500 permit processing fee per application from each applicant at the time the decision is made whether or not to issue a permit. Requires that 50 of fees collected as annual wind energy and solar energy right-of-way authorization fees be retained by the Secretary for use by: (1) the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to process permits, right-of-way applications, and other activities necessary for renewable energy development. And (2) either the US Fish and Wildlife Service or other federal agencies involved in wind and solar permitting reviews in order to facilitate the processing of wind energy and solar energy permit applications on BLM lands. Title II: Administrative Protest Documentation Reform - Requires the Secretary to collect a $5,000 documentation fee to accompany each protest for a lease, right of way, or application for permit to drill. Title III: Permit Streamlining - Requires the Secretary to: (1) establish a Federal Permit Streamlining Project in every BLM Field office with responsibility for permitting energy projects on federal land. And (2) enter into a related memorandum of understanding with the Secretary of Agriculture, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Chief of the Army Corps of Engineers. Authorizes the Secretary to request that the governor of any state with energy projects on federal lands be a signatory to the memorandum of understanding. Requires federal signatories to such memorandum to assign staff with special expertise in regulatory issues germane to field offices. States that the Secretary shall not require a finding of extraordinary circumstances related to a categorical exclusion in administering the Energy Policy Act of 2005 with respect to review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). Expresses the intent of Congress that: (1) this Act will support a growing US domestic energy sector that helps to reinvigorate American manufacturing, transportation, and service sectors by employing US workers to assist in the development of energy from domestic sources. And (2) Congress will monitor the deployment of personnel and material onshore under this Act to encourage the development of American technology and manufacturing to enable workers to benefit from this Act through good jobs and careers, and establishment of important industrial facilities to support expanded access to American energy resources. Directs the Secretary when possible and practicable, to encourage the use of US workers and equipment manufactured in the United States in all construction related to mineral resource development under this Act. Title IV: Judicial Review - States that venue for any covered civil action shall lie in the district court where the project or leases exist or are proposed. Sets forth procedures for judicial review of leasing of federal lands for the exploration, development, production, processing, or transmission of oil, natural gas, wind, or any other energy source of energy.
Title I: Yosemite National Park Authorized Payments - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to provide funds for FY2006-FY2009 to the Bass Lake Joint Union Elementary School District and the Mariposa Unified School District in California for educational services for students who: (1) are dependents of persons engaged in the administration, operation, and maintenance of Yosemite National Park. Or (2) live within or near the Park upon Federal property. Terminates the Secretary's authority to make such payments if the State of California or local education agencies do not continue to provide funding to the schools in those school districts at per student levels that at least equal to the amount provided in FY2005. Sets forth limitations on the use and amount of such funds, including a maximum limit of $400,000 on payments in any fiscal year. Prohibits the use of funds to make payments under this Act from the following sources: (1) any law authorizing the collection or expenditure of entrance or use fees at units of the National Park System. (2) any unexpended receipts collected through the recreational fee demonstration program or the national park passport program. And (3) emergency appropriations for Yosemite flood recovery. Allows the Secretary to use an authorized funding source to make payments only if the funding available to Yosemite National Park from such source is greater than or equal to the amount made available to the Park for the prior fiscal year, or in FY2005, whichever is greater. Amends the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 to allow certain facilities to be located outside the boundaries of Yosemite National Park. Title II: Rancho Corral De Tierra Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment - Rancho Corral de Tierra Golden Gate National Recreation Area Boundary Adjustment Act - Modifies the boundaries of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in California to include specified additional lands. Allows the Secretary of the Interior to acquire certain of those lands only from a willing seller. Title III: Redwood National Park Boundary Adjustment - Redwood National Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2005 - Revises the boundaries of the Redwood National Park in California. Requires that the map of the revised boundaries be placed on file and be available for public inspection in offices of the National Park Service and that such map be provided by the Secretary of the Interior to officers of Del Norte and Humboldt Counties, California. Increases to 133,000 acres the maximum acreage of the Park.
United States Specialty Crop Export Opportunities Act of 2007 - Amends the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000 to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to regulate plants, plant products, biological control organisms, and noxious weeds for export purposes. Directs the Secretary to: (1) coordinate fruit and vegetable market analyses with the private sector and the Administrator of the Foreign Agricultural Service. And (2) make publicly available on an Internet website the status of all export petitions and an explanation of the sanitary or phytosanitary issues associated with each pending export petition, and information on the import requirements of foreign countries for fruits and vegetables. Amends the Homeland Security Act to repeal the transfer of agricultural import and entry inspection functions from the Department of Agriculture to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Directs the Secretary to establish: (1) within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service the international agricultural inspection program to carry out import and entry agricultural inspections, (2) a federal-state agricultural inspection communications system, (3) the International Trade Inspection Advisory Committee. And (4) a special export credit guarantee program. Amends the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to extend: (1) the promotion of agricultural exports to emerging markets program. And (2) the E. (Kika) de la Garza Agricultural Fellowship program.
Eliminating Health Disparities Act of 2017 This bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to allow a state to establish a Health Disparities Elimination Program, through which the state shall provide incentive payments to qualified community health systems for approved initiatives to reduce health disparities. In selecting qualified community health systems for participation, a state shall give priority to those that: (1) have included, in their required action plans, the use of evidence-based interventions, (2) have had relevant prior experience. And (3) demonstrate a long-term commitment to serving the target populations, a need for additional financial resources, and the potential for high impact relative to the amount of funding requested. Federal funding for program support shall be allocated based on each state's share of total federal Medicaid expenditures.
National Strategy for Homeland Security Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security, under the direction of the President, to develop a National Strategy for Homeland Security for detection, prevention, protection, response, and recovery with regard to terrorist threats to the United States. Requires the Secretary to: (1) submit the Strategy to Congress by December 1st of each year in which a President is inaugurated and to submit an updated version two years thereafter. And (2) provide, in conjunction with the President's budget request, an annual assessment of progress on implementing the Strategy. Sets forth contents of the Strategy, including: (1) threat, vulnerability, and risk assessment and analysis, (2) a statement of desired end-states, (3) an assessment of necessary resources and investments. (4) a delineation of organizational roles and responsibilities across the many entities involved. And (5) an explanation of the relationship between the Strategy and other Federal strategies addressing terrorist threats. Directs the Secretary to establish a nonpartisan, independent Homeland Security Commission to conduct an alternative assessment of the optimal policies and programs to improve homeland security against terrorist threats, including an estimate of the funding required.
HIV Nondiscrimination in Travel and Immigration Act of 2007 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) bar to US admission. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) convene a panel of public health experts to review immigration policies regarding HIV as a communicable disease of public health significance. And (2) make a determination and report to Congress regarding the continued listing of HIV as a health-related ground for inadmissibility.
Information Technology Partnerships Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make competitive grants to institutions of higher education to establish, oversee, and provide technical assistance to postsecondary information technology education and employment assistance projects. Requires such projects to be implemented by certain types of community-based organizations, or by the institutions receiving the grants. Makes applicants eligible for such project assistance if they have a high school diploma or equivalent. Sets forth requirements for: (1) duties of, and uses of project funds by, institutions of higher education and community-based organizations, (2) project sites, (3) information technology curricula. And (4) minimum enrollment percentages of specified low-income individuals and individuals under age 25. Authorizes grants for implementation of a project solely by institutions of higher education without the participation of community-based organizations. But gives grant award priority to institutions of higher education whose grant applications include an assurance that they will contract with one or more community-based organizations. Authorizes appropriations.
Stop Illegal Trafficking in Firearms Act of 2017 This bill amends the federal criminal code to establish stand-alone criminal offenses for trafficking in firearms and straw purchasing of firearms. The bill expands the categories of prohibited persons to include persons who intend: (1) to sell or transfer a firearm or ammunition to a prohibited person. (2) to sell or transfer a firearm to further a crime of violence, a federal crime of terrorism, or a drug trafficking offense. Or (3) to unlawfully export. It increases the maximum prison term for the sale or transfer of a firearm to or the receipt or possession of a firearm by a prohibited person. The bill revises existing prohibitions on: (1) transferring a firearm knowing that it will be used to commit a crime of violence or drug trafficking offense. And (2) smuggling a firearm into the United States with the intent to unlawfully import or to promote a crime of violence or drug trafficking offense. It broadens the scope of and increases the maximum prison term for violating the prohibitions. The bill also makes it a crime to smuggle a firearm or ammunition out of the United States, or to conspire or attempt to do so, with the intent to unlawfully export or to promote a crime of violence, a federal crime of terrorism, or a drug trafficking offense. Finally, the bill prohibits the Department of Justice, or its law enforcement coordinate agencies, from facilitating the transfer of an operable firearm to a known or suspected agent of drug cartel, unless US law enforcement personnel continuously monitor or control the firearm.
Railroad Hours of Service Act of 2010 - Extends railroad hours of services requirements and limitations to cover yardmaster employees who supervise and coordinate the activities of workers engaged in railroad traffic operations, including making up or breaking up trains and switching inbound or outbound traffic. Revises the prohibition against a railroad carrier's requiring or allowing a train employee to remain or go on duty unless that employee has had at least 10 consecutive hours off duty during the prior 24 hours. Prohibits requiring or allowing an employee from initiating an on duty period unless the employee has had at least 10 consecutive hours off duty immediately prior to going on duty. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to prescribe regulations to: (1) require all deadhead transportation in excess of a specific number of hours to be counted as time on duty. And (2) reset the calendar day clock. Revises the rule that an interim period available for at least 4 hours rest at a place with suitable facilities for food and lodging is not time on duty. Repeals the current list of causes for prevention of a return to duty. Requires a train employee to be notified before going off duty whether such period off duty is an interim release. Prohibits a railroad carrier from requiring or allowing an employee to exceed 2 hours in deadhead transportation per each tour of duty. Revises the limitations on the duty hours of signal employees. Specifies that time on duty spent performing any service for the railroad carrier during a 24-hour period in which the employee is engaged in installing, repairing, or maintaining signal systems includes all work where there is a potential to interact or otherwise come into contact with safety-critical devices or circuits. Treats as service covered by hours of duty limitations the operation by signal employees of motor vehicles requiring a commercial driver's license while on duty. Extends to yardmaster employees certain limitations on the duty hours of dispatching service employees. Declares that all commingle service involving yardmaster service and dispatcher service mixing with freight service shall be covered by the limitations on the duty hours of signal employees. Extends to yardmaster employees, when an emergency exists, the same limitation that applies to the hours of dispatching service employees in an emergency.
National Beverage Container Recycling Initiative Act - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to prohibit the sale of beer, ale, or other drinks produced by fermenting malt, soda or noncarbonated water, and all nonalcoholic carbonated or noncarbonated drinks in liquid form in beverage containers by retailers and distributors unless such containers carry a refund value of five cents. Bars sales of wine and spirits unless their beverage containers carry a refund value of 15 cents. Provides for the adjustment for inflation of the refund amount at ten-year intervals. Requires: (1) distributors to collect from retailers or redemption centers the refund value for each beverage sold to retailers. And (2) retailers to collect from consumers the refund value for each beverage sold to consumers. Requires retailers and distributors to pay the refund on returned containers of brands sold. Authorizes retailers to limit the daily amount of containers accepted from any one person. Directs distributors to pay annually to a State unclaimed refund amounts . Makes unclaimed refunds available to a State for carrying out pollution prevention and recycling programs. Prohibits distributors and retailers from: (1) selling beverages in metal beverage containers with detachable openings. And (2) disposing of containers subject to this Act or any metal, glass, or plastic from such containers in landfills or solid waste disposal facilities. Makes this Act inapplicable to States that have adopted requirements substantially similar to those under this Act. Prohibits States or political subdivisions that impose taxes on the sale of beverage containers from imposing any tax on the amount attributable to the refund value of such containers. Prescribes civil penalties for violations of this Act.
Rural Law Enforcement Act of 1996 - Amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to establish the National Center for Rural Law Enforcement at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. Establishes an advisory board and requires the Attorney General to appoint an Executive Director of the Center to prepare and submit a periodic report to the advisory board and the University. Sets forth the Director's functions, including providing for: (1) the support of rural law enforcement agencies with technical assistance and practical and focused research. (2) education and training for rural law enforcement managers and personnel, (3) grants and contracts to carry out this Act. (4) the establishment and continuation of a clearinghouse and information center on criminal justice and rural law enforcement. (5) consulting assistance and service to Federal, State, and local criminal justice agencies with respect to crime in rural areas. And (6) evaluation programs that study the effectiveness of new approaches employed to improve rural law enforcement systems. Authorizes appropriations to carry out this Act as a separate line item in the Department of Justice Appropriations Act.
Fans Rights Act of 1995 - Declares that it shall not be unlawful by reason of any provision of the antitrust laws for a professional sports league to enforce rules authorizing the membership of the league to decide that a member club of such league shall not be relocated. Sets forth criteria for relocation decisions by leagues, including: (1) fan loyalty. (2) the extent to which the team received public financial support by means of any publicly financed playing facility, special tax treatment, or any other form of such support. (3) the adequacy of the stadium in which the team played its home games in the previous season, and the willingness of the stadium, arena authority, or local government to remedy any deficiencies in the facility. And (4) whether the team has incurred net operating losses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, sufficient to threaten the continued financial viability of the team. Requires any person seeking to change the home territory of a member team to furnish notice to all interested parties of the proposed change not later than 180 days before the commencement of the season in which the member team is to play in such other location. Sets forth notice requirements. Provides that, during the 180-day notice period, a local government, stadium, arena authority, person, or any combination thereof: (1) may prepare and present a proposal to purchase the member team to retain the team in the home territory. And (2) shall be given the opportunity to prepare and present such a proposal. Requires the response of the owner to any offer made to be in writing and delivered in person or by certified mail, stating in detail the reasons for refusal of any bona fide offer. Directs the league to make a determination with respect to the location of such member team's home territory before the expiration of the notice period, after conducting a hearing at which interested parties are afforded an opportunity to present testimony. Sets forth provisions regarding judicial review. Prohibits making or offering to make a payment, or to provide or arrange with others for the provision of other value, to a league or any of its members in connection with a decision regarding the relocation of a member team.
Greater Sage Grouse Protection and Recovery Act of 2016 This bill delays findings by the Department of the Interior with respect to the greater sage grouse under the Endangered Species Act until September 30, 2026. Additionally, Interior and the Department of Agriculture (USDA)are prohibited from amending any federal resource management plans that affect the greater sage grouse in a state in which the governor has notified Interior or USDA that a state management plan is in place.
NEPA Reciprocity Act Directs the Secretary of Transportation to establish a program to eliminate duplicative environmental reviews and approvals under state and federal law for rail and highway transportation projects. Authorizes a state to use state environmental review and approval laws and procedures, consistent with certain requirements, in lieu of federal environmental laws and regulations.
Criminal Gang Activity Act of 2004 - Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to prohibit anyone who participates in a criminal street gang from possessing firearms or ammunition. Defines such participation as committing, or conspiring or attempting to commit, two or more predicate gang crimes, or inducing or facilitating the commission of a predicate gang crime, in furtherance of gang activities or for the purpose of gang membership or position.
Employment Non-Discrimination Act of 1994 - Prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation by covered entities, including employing authorities of the House of Representatives, employing offices of the Senate, and instrumentalities of the Congress. Declares that: (1) this Act does not apply to the provision of employee benefits for the benefit of an employee's partner. And (2) a disparate impact does not establish a prima facie violation of this Act. Prohibits quotas and preferential treatment. Declares that this Act does not apply to: (1) religious organizations, (2) the armed forces. Or (3) laws creating special rights or preferences for veterans. Provides for enforcement. Disallows State and Federal immunity. Allows recovery of attorney's fees. Prohibits retaliation and coercion. Requires posting notices for employees and applicants.
Expresses the sense of the Congress that any US national conducting a commercial cooperation project in Vietnam should adhere to specified principles regarding: (1) nondiscrimination in employment, (2) worker and environmental safety, (3) partnerships with businesses not controlled by the Vietnamese Government. (4) prohibitions on a military presence and political indoctrination programs on project premises, (5) freedoms of association and expression. And (6) the promotion of a full accounting of all Americans missing in action from the Vietnam conflict. Directs the Secretary of State to encourage member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to promote similar principles. Requires US nationals conducting commercial cooperation projects in Vietnam to: (1) register with the Secretary and indicate whether they agree to implement such principles. And (2) report annually to the Department of State on adherence to such principles. Permits Federal agencies to intercede with a foreign government or national on behalf of such a US national regarding export marketing activities in Vietnam only if such individual adheres to the principles.
Amends the National School Lunch Act (NSLA) to make Head Start participants automatically eligible for free meals under the NSLA school lunch program and the school breakfast program of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (CNA). Revises the child and adult care food program under NSLA. Broadens the definition of eligible institution. Provides for additional reimbursement for family or group day care home sponsoring organizations and an enhanced administrative reimbursement rate for such organizations serving rural or low-income area providers. Increases the allowable amount of startup and expansion funds. Allows expansion funds to be used for outreach to unlicensed day care homes. Extends the authorization of appropriations for such program. Adds provisions relating to information about Medicaid and the special nutrition program for women, infants, and children (WIC). Expands eligibility for meal supplements for the afterschool care program to youths up to age 18. Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to report on demonstration projects to improve food service for homeless children. Directs the Secretary to use certain funds for nutrition counseling, assessments, and referrals for participants in such homeless demonstration program, WIC, Medicaid, and similar programs for homeless pregnant women or those at risk of becoming so, homeless mothers with newborn infants, or the guardians of boarder babies or other abandoned infants. Requires periodic reports. Amends the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (CNA) to require States to use a portion of certain increased grant funds for nutrition education and training assistance for family day care home sponsors and day care center staff.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the Department of Defense (DOD) should undertake actions to ensure that family members of National Guard and Reserve personnel who are deployed have full access to mental health care during the periods of mobilization, deployment, and demobilization. Requires the Secretary of Defense to undertake an initiative to increase access to mental health care, including education concerning mental health challenges and information on available resources, for family members of such personnel who are mobilized. Requires reimbursement under the TRICARE program for certain mental health care services, including chemical dependency treatment, provided to a family member of a covered Guard or Reserve member during a period of deployment on active duty for more than 30 days in connection with Operation Iraqi Freedom or Operation Enduring Freedom who, while on such duty, is covered by the TRICARE program on a for self and family basis. Requires regular reports from the Secretary assessing the access and quality of such family mental health care services and recommendations for legislative and administrative action.
Title I: Exclusion of Nonnative Species from Migratory Bird Treaty Act - Migratory Bird Treaty Reform Act of 2004 - Amends the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) to clarify that the MBTA's prohibition on taking, killing, or possessing migratory birds applies only to native migratory bird species whose occurrence in the United States results from natural biological or ecological conditions. Excludes from coverage under the MBTA bird species occurring as the result of human assisted introduction unless the species: (1) was native to the United States and extant in 1918, (2) became extinct throughout its range thereafter. And (3) was reintroduced as part of a Federal program. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to publish a list of all non-native, human introduced bird species to which the MBTA does not apply that belong to biological families of migratory birds covered under any migratory bird conventions with Great Britain , Mexico, Russia, or Japan. Title II: Conservation of Neotropical Migratory Birds - Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Improvement Act of 2004 - Amends the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act (NMBCA) to increase the Federal share of costs for projects funded under that Act. Prescribes the form of payment for such projects undertaken in the United States and Canada versus Latin America and the Caribbean. Establishes the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Fund. Increases the amount of funds that the Secretary may expend to administer the NMBCA. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to transfer to the Fund amounts that were in the Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Account immediately before the enactment of this Act. Authorizes appropriations. Requires not less than 75 percent of such appropriations to be used for projects outside the United States. Prohibits expenditures for projects in Canada during a fiscal year unless the amount available to carry out NMBCA exceeds $10 million for that year.
Over-the-Counter Hearing Aid Act of 2017 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to categorize certain hearing aids as over-the-counter hearing aids and issue regulations regarding those hearing aids. The regulations for over-the-counter hearing aids must: (1) provide reasonable assurances of safety and efficacy, (2) establish output limits and labeling requirements. And (3) describe requirements for the sale of hearing aids in-person, by mail, or online, without a prescription. State and local governments may not establish or continue in effect requirements specifically applicable to hearing products that are not identical to FDA requirements and that restrict or interfere with the servicing or sale of over-the-counter hearing aids. The FDA must update and finalize its draft guidance on hearing products. The guidance must clarify which products are medical devices.
Directs the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to liquidate or reliquidate certain entries relating to high-density, fiberboard-core laminate panels and refund any amounts owed.
Legacy IRA Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to expand the tax exclusion for distributions from individual retirement accounts (IRAs) for charitable purposes. The bill increases from $100,000 to $400,000 the annual limit on the aggregate amount of distributions for charitable purposes that may be excluded from the gross income of a taxpayer. The bill permits tax-free distributions from IRAs to a split-interest entity until December 31, 2020. A split-interest entity is exclusively funded by charitable distributions and includes: a charitable remainder annuity trust, a charitable remainder unitrust, or a charitable gift annuity. A charitable gift annuity must commence fixed payments of at least 5 no later than one year from the date of funding. A distribution to a split-interest entity may only be treated as a qualified charitable distribution if: (1) no person holds an income interest in the entity other than the individual for whose benefit the account is maintained, the spouse of such individual, or both. And (2) the income interest in the entity is nonassignable. The bill limits the exclusion annually to: $100,000 for distributions to charitable organizations, and $400,000 for distributions to split-interest entities. Tax-free distributions to a split-interest entity may be made when the account beneficiary attains age 65.
Provides that: (1) if the Secretary determines that recovered amounts are not being spent accordingly the Secretary shall take appropriate action to offset such amounts from the amounts otherwise paid to the State under Medicaid. And (2) payment for administrative expenses incurred in pursuing tobacco litigation is prohibited. Makes this Act effective with regard to amounts recovered or paid to a State before, on, or after the enactment of this Act.
SCHIP Enhancement Act of 2001 - Amends title XXI (SCHIP) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to give States the option to expand income eligibility under SCHIP to children whose family income totals up to 300 percent of the Federal poverty line. Provides for additional allotments for States that expand income eligibility under SCHIP, allowing such allotments to be used for premium assistance for family coverage under an employee-sponsored group health plan.
Criminal Terrorism Improvements Act of 2006 - Amends the federal criminal code to impose the death penalty or life imprisonment on individuals who cause the death of a person while committing a terrorist act. Authorizes the death penalty for: (1) developing, possessing, or threatening to use radiological weapons against a person or against US property. (2) causing the death of an individual by using missile systems designed to destroy aircraft, by using radiological dispersal devices, or by using the variola virus. And (3) use of atomic weapons with intent to injure the United States. Increases criminal penalties for: (1) attempting or conspiring to kill a US national. (2) engaging in physical violence with the intent to injure a US national. (3) financing terrorism or concealing assets to be used for terrorist activities. And (4) providing material support to terrorists or receiving military-type training from a foreign terrorist organization. Amends the crime of receiving military-type training from a foreign terrorist organization to include attempts or conspiracies to receive such training. Denies certain federal benefits to individuals convicted of a federal crime of terrorism. Expands the authorization for interception of communications (wiretapping) to include all federal crimes of terrorism.
Block Access to North Korea Act of 2016 or BANK Act of 2016 This bill requires the President to impose sanctions pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, with specified waiver authority, against a person that continues to knowingly and directly provide specialized financial messaging services to, or to knowingly enable or facilitate access to such messaging services for: the Central Bank of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea , a financial institution that facilitates any transaction or provides significant financial services for nuclear development or proliferation on North Korea's behalf, or a person identified on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained by the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control for assisting North Korea's nuclear development or proliferation efforts.
Civil Rights Commission Act of 1998 - Amends the Civil Rights Commission Act of 1983 to extend the termination date of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. Authorizes appropriations to carry out that Act. Sets a four-year term of office for the Commission's staff director and requires the Commission to annually review the staff director's performance. Includes the Commission in the term agency for purposes of the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act of 1974, the Government in the Sunshine Act, and the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Requires the Commission to prepare an annual financial statement and have the statement audited by an independent external auditor. Shortens Commission Members' terms of office to five years. Requires the Commission to implement the General Accounting Office's recommendations regarding revision of the Commission's Administrative Instructions and structural regulations and to establish a management information system. Requires the Commission to report regarding: (1) enforcement of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (2) religious freedom in public schools, (3) the crisis of young African-American males, (4) fair employment law enforcement. And (5) the civil rights implications of regulatory obstacles confronting minority entrepreneurs. Declares that the purpose of advisory committees constituted by the Commission is to conduct fact finding and develop findings or recommendations. Requires any report by an advisory committee to be fairly balanced in the viewpoints represented.
Professional's Access To Health Workforce Integration Act of 2015 Directs the Department of Health and Human Services, acting through the Bureau of Health Workforce within the Health Resources and Services Administration, the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities, or the Office of Minority Health (HHS), to award grants to eligible entities to: provide services to assist unemployed and underemployed skilled immigrants residing in the United States, who have legal, permanent work authorization and who are internationally educated health professionals, in entering into and advancing in the American health workforce with employment matching their health professional skills, education, and expertise. Provide training opportunities to reduce barriers to entry and advancement in the health workforce for skilled, internationally educated immigrants. Educate employers regarding the abilities and capacities of internationally educated health professionals, assist in the evaluation of foreign credentials. And facilitate access to contextualized and accelerated courses on English as a second language. Includes as an eligible entity a clinical, public health, or health services organization, a community-based or nonprofit entity, an academic institution, a faith-based organization, a state, county, or local government, or an Area Health Education Center that submits an application that meets HHS requirements. Defines quot, health professionalquot. As an individual trained for employment or intended employment in specified fields, including public health, health management, dentistry, health administration, medicine, nursing, pharmacy, psychology, social work, psychiatry, and other mental and behavioral health, allied health, and community health or wellness work.
Central American Security Act - Amends the Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act to: (1) extend permanent resident status adjustment provisions to qualifying Salvadoran, Guatemalan, and Honduran nationals. And (2) revise the application filing deadline. Permits certain pending applications filed by Salvadoran or Guatemalan nationals to be converted to an application for status adjustment under the Act. Amends the Act to: (1) authorize the Attorney General to waive certain grounds of inadmissibility. And (2) provide for issuance of immigrant visas to certain spouses and children. States that applicants for relief: (1) shall not be granted a waiver from any security or criminal background investigation required by the Act. And (2) shall submit fingerprints to the appropriate Federal agencies. Provides for the limited reopening of certain orders of deportation, exclusion, or removal by certain Cuban, or Nicaraguan nationals.
Fight Russian Corruption Act This bill amends the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to require the Department of State to establish the Office of Anti-Corruption relating to Illicit Russian Financial Activities in Europe. Such office shall: (1) analyze financial networks of the Russian Federation operating in European countries that relate to real estate, energy, media, infrastructure, and other sectors. And (2) train US liaison officers to serve in key US diplomatic and consular posts in such countries to cooperate with foreign partners in uncovering and prosecuting illicit Russian financial activity. The bill authorizes the State Department to provide assistance to European countries to combat corruption, including to support: (1) activities of such office. (2) foreign programs focused on investigative journalism and independence of the media environment to expose Russian corruption. And (3) activities in Europe related to anti-corruption, anti-propoganda, and anti-Russian malign influence. The State Department shall seek to work with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to: (1) elevate anti-corruption as an element of NATO's Readiness Action Plan, (2) task the NATO Assistant Secretary General for Intelligence and Warning with monitoring Russian influence in NATO member states, and (3) prioritize the combating of Russian influence under the NATO-European Union framework. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence shall submit a National Intelligence Estimate on: (1) purchases made in the last five years by individuals and entities of key sectors in European countries, particularly purchases that provide monopolistic control of a sector. And (2) the individuals and entities making such purchases, including any links to the Russian Federation.
Protect Marriage from the Courts Act of 2015 Prohibits federal courts from having jurisdiction to adjudicate or enforce any claim pertaining to the validity, under the US Constitution, of a state law or a state administrative or judicial decision that: (1) defines marriage as limited to the union of one man and one woman, or (2) refuses state recognition of, or allows the state to refuse recognition of, same-sex marriages performed and licensed in other states. Allows final judgments entered by federal courts before the enactment of this Act to remain binding on the parties to the case, but persons who are not a party to such a case are not obligated to comply with such decisions.
Economic Fairness for Seniors Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to keep the same Medicare part B premium for 2010 that was in effect for 2009. Amends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 (ARRA) to require an additional economic recovery payment in calendar 2010 to certain beneficiaries of SSA title II (OASDI), railroad retirement, or veterans benefits. Makes appropriations to fund such payments. Directs the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) of the Department of Labor to study and report to Congress on: (1) whether a consumer price index for elderly consumers (CPI-E) more accurately reflects the true costs of inflation for elderly Americans than the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). And (2) if the elderly are being financially disadvantged by the use of the CPI-W in the determination of current benefit levels. Requires the BLS to prepare such a CPI-E if elderly Americans are disadvantaged by the CPI-W. Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to offset the expenses of this Act through a reduction in Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Funds.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase and make permanent the expensing allowance for depreciable business assets. And (2) allow a tax deduction, up to $10,000, for the purchase of a motor vehicle manufactured in the United States. Terminates such tax deduction after 2010.
Justice and Understanding By International Loan Elimination and Equity (JUBILEE) Act of 2004 - Amends the International Financial Institutions Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury to commence immediate efforts, within the Paris Club of Official Creditors, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , and other international financial institutions (multilateral development institutions (MDI's)) to accomplish: (1) the cancellation of all debts owed to each institution by specified eligible poor countries, and the financing of such debt cancellation from the institution's ongoing operations, procedures, and accounts. (2) the limitation of any waiting period before receipt of debt cancellation to one month from the date of an eligible poor country's application for it. And (3) encouragement of the government of each eligible poor country to allocate at least 20 percent of its national budget, including the savings from such debt cancellation, for the provision of basic health care services, education services, and clean water services to individuals in the country. Sets forth requirements for: (1) establishment of a framework to ensure transparency regarding each international financial institution's activities. And (2) availability on the Treasury Department's website of US Executive Directors' remarks at meetings of international financial institutions' Boards of Directors. Requires the Secretary to commence immediate efforts, within the Paris Club, the IMF, and other appropriate MDI's, to ensure that the provision of debt cancellation to such countries is not conditioned on any agreement by such a country to implement or comply with specified policies that deepen poverty or degrade the environment.
Basic Pilot Program Extension and Expansion Act of 2003 - Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to extend for five additional years: (1) the basic employment verification system pilot program, (2) the citizen attestation pilot program. And (3) the machine-readable-document pilot program. Extends the scope of the basic pilot program to all States by December 1, 2004 . Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to report on such program extension by June 1, 2004. Amends the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to give immigration priority to petitions filed under the pilot immigration for regional centers to promote economic growth. Extends such program for an additional five years. Directs the General Accounting Office (GAO) to conduct a study of the immigrant investor program, including information on the number of such immigrants and their country of origin, settlement locality, and employment created by them.
Transparency in Reporting to Protect American Workers and Prevent Human Trafficking Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to revise and expand the data reporting requirements to cover all nonimmigrant employees. Requires that such information be available on a public website.
Spectrum Relocation Improvement Act of 2008 - Amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to require the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) to post on its website detailed transition plans from each federal entity that is eligible for payments from the Spectrum Relocation Fund for costs related to the reallocation of frequencies from federal to nonfederal use. Requires the federal entities, to the fullest extent possible, to provide for sharing and coordination of eligible frequencies with commercial licensees. Requires federal entities to complete spectrum relocation within one year of receiving relocation payments.
Student Loan Simplification and Opportunity Act of 2011 - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to repeal the Secretary of Education's authority, under the Direct Loan (DL) program, to purchase or enter into forward commitments to purchase: (1) Federal Family Education Loans (FFELs) from lenders, upon the determination that there is an inadequate availability of loan capital to meet the demand for such loans. And (2) rehabilitated loans that eligible lenders purchased under the FFEL default reduction program. Authorizes the Secretary to offer borrowers FFEL Debt Conversion Loans, until October 2012, that cover FFELs that have not been purchased under the program this Act repeals, provided such borrowers: (1) are not in default or delinquent for 270 days or more on such loans, and (2) have an outstanding DL or an outstanding FFEL that was purchased pursuant to the program this Act repeals. Authorizes the Secretary to offer benefits to borrowers of FFEL Debt Conversion Loans in an amount up to 2 of the amount advanced on the FFEL Debt Conversion Loan. Requires federal proceeds from this Act's temporary authorization of FFEL Debt Conversion Loans to be used for the Pell grant program.
Rural Alaska Access Rights Act of 1999 - Amends the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act to: (1) require all Federal public land managers in Alaska, or a region that includes Alaska, to participate in an Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) training class, and for future Alaska public land managers to complete ANILCA training. (2) require any alternative route across Alaska public lands chosen by the head of a Federal agency to be no less economically feasible and prudent than the route being sought by an applicant. (3) provide that nothing in such Act shall be construed to adversely affect rights-of-way established under Revised Statute 2477. (4) provide that reasonable regulations governing transportation across Alaska public lands shall not include any requirements for the demonstration of pre-existing use (requiring the Secretary of the Interior. (5) allow the Secretary to grant easements and rights-of-way to private landholders across Alaska public lands for economic and other purposes. (6) prohibit the Secretary from imposing unreasonable fees or charges for those seeking to exercise such access rights. (7) require the Secretary to enable specified officials to participate in the development of an Alaska National Park System (System) conservation and management plan. (8) state that a current occupier of a cabin or other structure on System lands may not be required to waive, forfeit, or relinquish any possessory or personal interest therein. (9) authorize necessary repairs or minor alterations to such cabins or structures. (10) require fees for permits and leases to be reasonable and consistent with authorized uses. (11) include fish and wildlife dependent recreation as a purpose of Alaska national preserve units. (12) authorize the Secretary to designate zones where and periods when hunting, fishing, and trapping will be prohibited on Alaska public lands. (13) direct the Secretary of Agriculture to permit or regulate helicopter use and landings within Alaska National Forest Wilderness areas and Alaska National Forest Monument areas. And (14) prohibit the Secretary, on Alaska wilderness areas, from establishing management directives for administering any study area to preserve wilderness values prior to action by Congress on recommendations, if any, for wilderness designation of a study area.
Public Good IRA Rollover Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise the tax exclusion of distributions from individual retirement accounts (IRAs) for charitable purposes to: (1) make such exclusion permanent, (2) eliminate the $100,000 cap on such exclusion, (3) permit tax-free distributions from IRAs to a split-interest entity. And (4) allow distributions to a split-interest entity to be made when the account beneficiary attains age 59-12 .
Federal Asset Management Improvement Act of 2001 - Directs the: (1) Administrator of General Services to establish performance measures to determine the effectiveness of Federal property management. (2) head of each executive agency to monitor their agency's performance against such measures and report results to Congress. And (3) Administrator to submit to Congress a Federal property management plan. Amends the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 to authorize the Administrator to enter into agreements for the creation of one or more public-private partnerships to: (1) lease Federal real property. And (2) develop, rehabilitate, or renovate facilities on such property for use by executive agencies. Requires the Administrator to prepare and submit to Congress at least 30 days before entering into such an agreement a business plan regarding each agreement.
Directs the Administrator to conduct studies for use in developing: (1) a more complete list of potential health risks from inhalation, ingestion, or body contact, including effects to the upper respiratory system. (2) appropriate and effective indicators and appropriate, accurate, and expeditious methods for detecting the presence of pathogens in coastal recreational waters. And (3) guidance for State-to-State application of the revised water quality criteria for pathogens required to be issued by the Administrator under this Act that accounts for the diversity of geographic and aquatic conditions nationwide. Directs the Administrator to publish and revise regulations requiring monitoring of, and specifying methods to be used by States to monitor, coastal recreation waters at public beaches for compliance with water quality criteria and protection of public safety. Requires notification of local governments, the public, and the Administrator of exceedances, or the likelihood of exceedances, of water quality criteria for such waters. Requires the Administrator to issue guidance establishing core performance measures for testing, monitoring, and notification programs and for the delegation of such programs to local government authorities. Makes State resources available to such authorities if the programs are so delegated. Directs the Administrator to: (1) provide technical assistance to States for the implementation of uniform assessment and monitoring procedures for floatable materials in such waters. (2) specify the conditions under which the presence of floatable material constitutes a threat to public health and safety. And (3) establish a national coastal recreation water pollution occurrence database and a listing of communities complying with the monitoring and notification regulations published pursuant to this Act. Authorizes the Administrator to make grants to States to fulfill requirements under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia Diagnosis and Treatment Act of 2011 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish and implement a hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia initiative to assist in coordinating activities to improve early detection, screening, and treatment of people who suffer from HHT, focusing on advancing research on the causes, diagnosis, and treatment of HHT and increasing physician and public awareness of HHT. Directs the Secretary to establish the HHT Coordinating Committee to develop and coordinate implementation of a plan to advance research and understanding of HHT, including by: (1) conducting or supporting research across relevant National Institutes of Health (NIH) institutes, and (2) conducting evaluations and making recommendations regarding the prioritization and award of NIH research grants relating to HHT. Requires the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to carry out activities with respect to HHT, including conducting population screening and establishing an HHT resource center to provide comprehensive education on, and disseminate information about, HHT to health professionals, patients, industry, and the public. Sets forth requirements for HHT population screening, including requiring the Director of CDC to designate and provide funding for HHT Treatment Centers of Excellence. Requires the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services (CMS) to award grants for: (1) an analysis of the Medicare Provider Analysis and Review (MEDPAR) file to develop preliminary estimates on the totals costs to Medicare for items, services, and treatments for HHT. And (2) recommendations regarding an enhanced data collection protocol to permit a more precise determination of such costs.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Findings and Definitions Title II: Merchandise Trade Deficit Reduction United States-Japan Trade Equalizing Act of 1993 - Title I: Findings and Definitions - Sets forth congressional findings and purposes with respect to access to Japanese markets by US manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts. Title II: Merchandise Trade Deficit Reduction - Sets forth annual merchandise trade deficit reduction targets with respect to Japan's trade deficit with the United States. Requires the Secretary of Commerce to: (1) compute annually whether the target has been met for each year. (2) publish in the Federal Register that the import restriction implementation period is in effect for the year following the year a target has not been met. And (3) compute annually and publish in the Federal Register the quantitative import restrictions for years in which import restrictions are effective. Prohibits the quantity of Japanese motor vehicles and parts that may be entered into the United States in: (1) the first year in which a restriction is in effect from exceeding the quantity of such vehicles and parts entered during 1993, reduced by 20 percent. And (2) subsequent years from exceeding the quantity entered during the most recent year for which a restriction was in effect, reduced by 20 percent. Authorizes the Secretary to impose temporary quantitative import restrictions on such motor vehicles and parts during the first three months of an import restriction implementation period in order to prevent surging. Expresses the sense of the Congress that representatives of the US and Japanese Governments should undertake continuing discussions regarding the measures to be selected by the Japanese Government to achieve the merchandise trade deficit reduction targets.
Executive Appointee Ethics Improvement Act This bill lengthens from one to two years the ban on certain senior personnel of the executive branch and independent agencies from lobbying the department or agency in which the person served. If the Director of the Office of Government Ethics decides to waive this restriction, such decision shall be published in the Federal Register unless it would compromise national security. The bill lengthens from two to five years the ban on certain very senior personnel of the executive branch and independent agencies, including the Vice President, from lobbying any office or employee of any department or agency in which such person served. Certain high-level employees of the executive branch are subject to a lifetime ban on knowingly representing a foreign entity before any officer or employee of any department or agency of the United States with the intent to influence a decision of such officer or employee. During a two-year period beginning on the date an individual is appointed to a covered position, such individual is banned from participating in any matter involving specific parties that is directly related to the individual's former employer or former clients. Additionally, any individual who was a registered lobbyist or who engaged in lobbying activities during a two-year period prior to appointment is prohibited from participating in any particular matter on which the individual made a lobbying contact or participating in the specific issue area in which the matter falls. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) may waive these requirements if OMB certifies in writing to various congressional committees that it is in the public interest to grant the waiver.
Resource Efficient Appliance Incentives Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a business tax credit for the production of certain water and energy efficient appliances . Bases the amount of such credit on specified energy and water efficiency ratings.
Amends title II of the Social Security Act to provide that a beneficiary shall be entitled to a prorated benefit for the month in which he or she dies.
Includes balloon mortgages within the definition of adjustable rate mortgages. States that if a residential mortgage loan is modified the cancellation date, termination date, or final agreement shall be recalculated to reflect such modifications. Extends mortgage insurance cancellation rights beyond the cancellation date for a qualifying borrower who is current on required payments. Revises the automatic termination date with respect to a mortgagor who is not current on payments as of the mortgage termination date. States that the cancellation or termination of private mortgage insurance shall not affect the rights of any mortgagee, servicer, or insurer to enforce any accrued obligation for premium payments. Revises specified definitions.
National Climate Service Act of 2009 - Requires the Secretary of Commerce to establish within the Climate Program Office of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) a National Climate Service that includes a national center and a network of regional and local facilities for operational climate observation, modeling, and research. Requires the Service to: (1) inform the public about climate impacts. (2) serve as a clearinghouse and technical access point to stakeholders for information on climate, climate impacts, and adaptation, and relevant comprehensive databases of information. (3) provide education on climate impacts, vulnerabilities, and application of climate information in decisionmaking. (4) design decision-support tools that facilitate use of climate information in stakeholders' near-term operations and long-term planning. (5) facilitate user access to climate experts for technical assistance in the use of climate information and to inform the climate forecast community of their information needs. (6) provide researcher, modeler, and observations experts access to users to help guide direction of their activities. And (7) propose and evaluate adaptation strategies for climate variability and change. Sets forth the Service's functions, including establishing an atmospheric monitoring and verification program utilizing aircraft, satellite, ground sensors, ocean and coastal observing systems, and modeling capabilities to monitor, measure, and verify greenhouse gas concentrations and emissions throughout the oceans and atmosphere. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees on a plan of action for the Service. Requires the Administrator of NOAA to appoint a Director of the Service. Requires the Director to appoint members of a National Climate Service Advisory Council to promote coordination across regional, national, and international concerns and assess information needs.
Civil Rights Commission Amendments Act of 1994 - Amends the United States Commission on Civil Rights Act of 1983 to reauthorize the Commission. Renames such Act as the Civil Rights Commission Act of 1983. Provides that: (1) the initial membership of the Commission shall be the members of the Commission on September 30, 1994, and thereafter vacancies shall continue to be appointed according to a specified formula. And (2) the term of each member in the initial membership shall expire on the date such term would have expired as of September 30, 1994. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, (2) removal of members. And (3) a quorum. Directs the Commission to: (1) investigate allegations in writing under oath or affirmation relating to deprivations because of color, race, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin, or as a result of any pattern or practice of fraud, of the right of US citizens to vote and have votes counted. And (2) study and collect information relating to, make appraisals of Federal laws and policies regarding, serve as a national clearinghouse for information relating to, and prepare public service announcements and advertising campaigns to discourage, discrimination or denials of equal protection of the laws under the Constitution because of color, race, religion, sex, age, disability, or national origin, or in the administration of justice. Specifies that nothing in this or any other Act shall be construed as authorizing the Commission, its advisory committees, or any person under its supervision or control to: (1) inquire into or investigate any membership practices or internal operations of any fraternal organization, college or university fraternity or sorority, private club, or religious organization. Or (2) study and collect, make appraisals of, or serve as a clearinghouse for information about Federal laws and policies regarding abortion. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) reports, (2) advisory committees, (3) hearings and ancillary matters. And (4) administrative provisions. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates such Act on September 30, 1995.
States that it shall be US policy to: (1) undertake measures to deny the Cuban regime the financial resources to engage in activities that threaten US national security and other interests, threaten the environment and natural resources of northern Cuba and Florida, and prolong the dictatorship that oppresses the Cuban people. And (2) deter foreign investments that would enhance the Cuban regime's ability to develop its petroleum resources. Amends the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 to exclude from US entry an alien who: (1) is an officer or principal of an entity, or a shareholder who owns a controlling interest in an entity that makes an investment of $1 million or more , that significantly contributes to Cuba's ability to develop petroleum and natural gas resources off its north coast. Or (2) is a spouse, minor child, or agent of such person. Exempts on a case-by-case basis entries: (1) for medical reasons or property-related litigation. Or (2) where a transition government is in place. Defines investment for purposes of this Act. Directs the President to impose two or more specified export, procurement, financial institution, loan, or Export-Import Bank sanctions if the President determines that a person has made an investment of $1 million or more that contributes to the enhancement of Cuba's ability to develop petroleum resources of the submerged lands of Cuba's northern coast.
Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011 - Amends the Clean Air Act to prohibit the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from promulgating any regulation concerning, taking action relating to, or taking into consideration the emission of a greenhouse gas (GHG) to address climate change. Excludes GHGs from the definition of air pollutant for purposes of addressing climate change. Exempts from such prohibition: (1) implementation and enforcement of the rule, Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards and Corporate Average Fuel Economy Standards and finalization, implementation, enforcement, and revision of the proposed rule, Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standards and Fuel Efficiency Standards for Medium- and Heavy-Duty Engines and Vehicles, (2) implementation of the renewable fuel program. (3) statutorily authorized federal research, development, and demonstration programs addressing climate change. (4) implementation and enforcement of stratospheric ozone protection to the extent that such implementation or enforcement only involves class I or II substances. And (5) implementation and enforcement of requirements for monitoring and reporting of carbon dioxide emissions. Provides that none of such exemptions shall cause a GHG to be subject to regulations relating to prevention of significant deterioration of air quality or considered an air pollutant for purposes of air pollution prevention and control permits. Repeals and makes ineffective specified rules and actions concerning permit requirements or emission standards for GHGs to address climate change. Prohibits the Administrator from waiving, and invalidates waivers given by the Administrator before the enactment of this Act, the ban on states from adopting or enforcing standards relating to the control of emissions from new motor vehicles or engines with respect to GHG emissions for model year 2017 or any subsequent model year.
Gold King Mine Spill Recovery Act of 2015 This bill entitles persons to compensation for allowable damages under the Federal Tort Claims Act if they were injured by the spill into Cement Creek from the Gold King Mine near Silverton, Colorado. The spill occurred on August 5, 2015. The bill establishes an Office of Gold King Mine Spill Claims within the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to process and pay compensation claims. The EPA must work with affected states and Indian tribes to develop, fund, and implement a long-term monitoring program for water quality of the Animas and San Juan Rivers in response to the spill. The bill amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 by requiring certain agencies to work with affected states as well as research universities to: (1) identify the most dangerous abandoned and inactive mines, (2) establish a priority plan for cleaning up those mines, (3) update the plan as new information becomes available, and (4) develop a long-term research initiative. That initiative must evaluate the physical, chemical, and geological attributes of closed, abandoned, and inactive mines and pursue technological developments to aid in the cleanup of those mines. Prior to carrying out mine remediation activities, agencies must: (1) provide affected tribal, state, and local governments notice of such activities. And (2) develop a spill prevention, control, and countermeasures plan for avoiding and mitigating the impacts of a spill.
Secondary Payer Advancement, Rationalization, and Clarification Act or the SPARC Act This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to specify recovery rules with respect to secondary claims responsibility under the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Under current law, secondary payor provisions apply under the benefit in the same manner as they apply with respect to Medicare Advantage plans.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Federal Payments to States Title II: Requirements for Comprehensive Health Plans Title III: Financing Mechanisms Title IV: Tax Deductibility of Health Insurance American Health Security Partnership Act of 1995 - Title I: Federal Payments to States - Mandates payments to States for comprehensive health insurance plans certified under title II of this Act. Title II: Requirements for Comprehensive Health Plans - Requires each State to submit and operate a comprehensive health insurance plan designed to be administered by the State and having at least: (1) coverage for all individuals in the State. (2) benefits comparable to that available under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (deeming coverage under titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX, (3) home- and community-based care when medically appropriate, (4) community premium rating. (5) payment by the State of supplemental amounts to ensure that all individuals may obtain coverage at reasonable rates, (6) quality control mechanisms. And (7) premium control and cost control mechanisms. Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to exempt from ERISA State laws conforming to or reflecting a plan certified under this Act. Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to condition Medicaid payments to a State on the State having a certified plan in effect by the deadline. Modifies the method for determining the amount of the community spouse resource allowance for Medicaid provisions relating to transferring resources to a community spouse. Title III: Financing Mechanisms - Amends the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) to increase the highest corporate income tax rate. Amends Medicaid provisions to reduce the maximum Federal medical assistance percentage. Amends the IRC to increase the tax rate on tobacco and related products. Title IV: Tax Deductibility of Health Insurance - Allows a tax deduction for insurance that constitutes medical care.
No Electronic Theft (NET) Act - Amends Federal copyright law to define financial gain to include the receipt of anything of value, including the receipt of other copyrighted works. Sets penalties for willfully infringing a copyright: (1) for purposes of commercial advantage or private financial gain. Or (2) by reproducing or distributing, including by electronic means, during any 180-day period, one or more copies of one or more copyrighted works with a total retail value of more than $1,000. Provides that evidence of reproduction or distribution of a copyrighted work, by itself, shall not be sufficient to establish willful infringement. Extends the statute of limitations for criminal copyright infringement from three to five years. Revises Federal criminal code provisions regarding criminal copyright infringement to provide for a fine and up to five years' imprisonment for infringing a copyright for purposes of commercial advantage or private financial gain, by reproducing or distributing, including by electronic means, during any 180-day period, at least ten copies or phonorecords of one or more copyrighted works which have a total retail value of more than $2,500. Provides for: (1) up to three years' imprisonment and fines in infringement cases described above. (2) up to six years' imprisonment and a fine for a second or subsequent felony offense under (1). And (3) up to one year's imprisonment and a fine for the reproduction or distribution of one or more copies or phonorecords of one or more copyrighted works with a total retail value of more than $1,000. Requires, during preparation of the presentence report in cases of criminal copyright infringement, unauthorized fixation and trafficking of live musical performances, and trafficking in counterfeit goods or services, that victims of the offense be permitted to submit, and the probation officer receive, a victim impact statement that identifies the victim and the extent and scope of the victim's injury and loss, including the estimated economic impact of the offense on that victim. Directs the US Sentencing Commission to ensure that the applicable guideline range for a defendant convicted of a crime against intellectual property is sufficiently stringent to deter such a crime and adequately reflects consideration of the retail value and quantity of items with respect to which the crime against intellectual property was committed.
Establishes in the Treasury the Emergency Watershed Protection Disaster Assistance Fund to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to carry out emergency watershed protection activities in natural disaster-affected areas. Sets forth limitations on per disaster obligations.
Aggregate Risk and Revenue Management Act of 2011 or the ARRM Act of 2011 - Amends the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA), regarding all covered commodities and peanuts during each of the 2013-2017 crop years, to give the operator, tenant, or sharecropper on a farm an opportunity to make an annual election for all producers on the farm to receive aggregate risk and revenue management payments for the crop year for which the election is made. Repeals the direct and counter-cyclical payment programs for covered commodities and peanuts beginning with the 2013 crop year. Suspends permanent price support authority through December 31, 2017.
Commission Civil Liberties Board Act - Amends the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to make the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Board) an independent agency within the Executive branch. Requires the Board to be composed of a full-time chairman and four additional members, all to be confirmed by the Senate. Prohibits Board members, while so serving, from being an elected official, officer, or employee of the Federal Government. Provides six-year terms. Gives the Board subpoena power. Requires the Board to: (1) receive and review reports from privacy and civil liberties officers. And (2) report at least semiannually to specified congressional committees on Board activities and other appropriate matters. Directs the heads of specified Federal agencies to designate at least one senior officer for appropriate assistance with respect to privacy and civil liberties concerns as they relate to terrorism prevention. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to ensure that the Department of Homeland Security complies with the protections for human research subjects in research conducted or supported by such Department. Requires within the President's annual budget submission to Congress a separate statement of the amount of appropriations requested for the Board.
Reinvesting In Vital Economic Rivers and Waterways Act of 2013 or RIVER Act - Directs the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to promulgate regulations that, at a minimum, require certain delivery process criteria for qualifying construction and major rehabilitation projects for navigation infrastructure of inland and intracoastal waterways. Directs the Secretary, in conjunction with the Inland Waterways Users Board, to submit to Congress a 20-year program for making capital investments on inland and intracoastal waterways. Allows such program to be based on the 20-year capital investment strategy contained in the Inland Marine Transportation System Capital Projects Business Model, Final Report published on April 13, 2010, as approved by the Board. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to limit expenditures from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund to 50 of the total cost of the construction or rehabilitation project. Makes Fund amounts unavailable for: (1) construction or rehabilitation of dams, or (2) rehabilitation expenditures that do not equal or exceed $50 million. Increases the Inland Waterways Trust Fund financing rate from 20 cents to 29 cents after 2013.
Directs the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to assess and collect charges for utilization of radio and television communications sites located on Federal lands administered by the Forest Service or Bureau of Land Management. Requires the Forest Service and Bureau to annually review and adjust such charges to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index, with limitations. Requires any site user to pay an additional amount for granting access to the site to additional users and to provide a certified list of such additional users. Directs the Secretaries to jointly establish a broad-based advisory group of representatives from the nonbroadcast communications industry and the two agencies to review and report to specified congressional committees on recommendations on acceptable criteria for determining fair market values for communications site use and next best alternative use.
Requires the President to include in the report information: (1) on any action taken by a person identified in a prior annual report that establishes that the person has discontinued, rectified, or mitigated a prior proliferation activity identified under this Act. (2) on measures taken against such persons or against China in response to proliferation activities. And (3) other specified information. Requires submission of such reports in unclassified form, with classified annexes as necessary. Directs the President to apply certain measures for at least 12 months to each person identified in the annual report. Includes among such measures: (1) those set forth Executive Order No. 12938. (2) prohibition of US Government transfers or sales to such person of any item on the US Munitions List, and termination of all sales and after-sale servicing to such person of any defense articles, defense services, or design and construction services under the Arms Export Control Act. (3) denial of licenses, suspension of existing licenses, and termination of all transfers or sales and after-sale servicing for the transfer to such person of any item the export of which is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979 or the Export Administration regulations. (4) prohibition of US Government procurement of any goods or services from such person. (5) prohibition of US assistance to such person in the form of grants, loans, credits, guarantees, or otherwise. (6) immediate suspension of any agreements or efforts for the co-development or co-production with such person of any item on the US Munitions List. Sets conditions for the lifting of such measures. Requires the President to apply additional specified tier 1, tier 2, and tier 3 measures against China if certain circumstances exist. Requires one or more tier 2 measures if a person's proliferation activities are not rectified, or a person has engaged in additional proliferation activities, one year after imposition of section (4) measures, and one or more tier 3 measures if similar circumstances exist two years after imposition of section (4) measures. Sets forth procedures for congressional review of any presidential decision not to impose sanctions under this Act, or to exempt a person or China from such sanctions. Mandates imposition of such sanctions if Congress disapproves by joint resolution the President's decision. Requires transmittal to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of the President's annual report under this Act. Requires the SEC to promulgate regulations to: (1) ensure that securities investors are notified of the identity of any person in the report the securities of which are listed, or authorized for listing, on a registered national securities exchange or by a registered national securities association. And (2) require each person included in such a report to provide notice of such inclusion in each written report, registration statement, or other filing or notice required from that person under the securities laws.
Dismemberment Abortion Ban Act of 2015 This bill amends the federal criminal code to prohibit a physician from knowingly performing a dismemberment abortion. It provides a definition of the term quot, dismemberment abortion. quot. A physician who performs a dismemberment abortion is subject to a criminal fine, up to two years in prison, or both, unless the dismemberment abortion was necessary to save the mother's life. A woman or a parent of a minor who undergoes a dismemberment abortion may file a civil action for damages against an individual who violates this bill. The legislation bars the criminal prosecution of a woman who undergoes a dismemberment abortion for conspiracy to violate the provisions of this bill, for being a principal or an accessory after the fact, or for concealment of felony.
Government Excess Prevention Act of 2011 - Directs the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to coordinate with federal agencies to: (1) determine which government publications could be published on government websites and devise a strategy to reduce government printing costs over the 10-year period beginning with FY2012, (2) issue on OMB's public website the results of a cost-benefit analysis for monitoring government printing, and (3) establish guidelines on employee printing and for disclosing the cost of printing government publications. Imposes limitations on government travel and subsistence expenses, except for expenses incurred for threatened law enforcement personnel and for other expenses related to national security or public safety. Rescinds in FY2011 20 of the funding for the acquisition of new vehicles for the federal fleet by the General Services Administration (GSA). Imposes limitations on such funding in FY2012 and subsequent fiscal years.
Limits such increased deduction to the donor's artistic adjusted income .
Mental Health on Campus Improvement Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, to award grants to eligible institutions of higher education to improve mental and behavioral health services and outreach on college and university campuses. Directs the Secretary to give special consideration to programs that: (1) demonstrate the greatest need, (2) propose effective approaches for initiating or expanding campus services, (3) target underserved and at-risk populations. (4) coordinate with a community mental health center or other community mental health resources. (5) identify how the college or university will address psychiatric emergencies. And (6) demonstrate the greatest potential for replication and dissemination. Allows the Secretary to provide technical assistance to grantees. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Administrator, to convene an interagency, public-private sector working group to plan, establish, and begin coordinating and evaluating a targeted public education campaign that is designed to focus on mental and behavioral health on college campuses. Requires the Secretary to establish the College Campus Task Force to discuss mental and behavioral health concerns on college and university campuses.
Fairness and Accountability in Reorganizations Act of 2006 - Revises federal bankruptcy law to add to the conditions for court confirmation of a corporate reorganization plan that the compensation of an insider who will be employed or retained by the reorganized debtor has been approved by, or is subject to the approval of, the court, as reasonable. Prohibits the payment of a compensation enhancement in order to induce an insider of the debtor to remain with the debtor's business, unless the court finds that any transfers or obligations to or for the insider's benefit are essential to the survival of the business, or to the orderly liquidation and maximization of the value of the debtor's assets. Revises requirements for collective bargaining agreements and retiree health benefits to instruct the court to take into account the ongoing impact on the debtor of the debtor's relationship with all subsidiaries and affiliates, regardless of whether domestic or foreign, or whether any such subsidiary or affiliate is a debtor entity.
Syria Humanitarian Support and Democratic Transition Assistance Act of 2012 - Directs the President to appoint a Special Envoy for Syria to coordinate US engagement with the country and to ensure US support for efforts to bring about a democratic transition in Syria. Urges the President to: (1) support humanitarian activities taking place in and outside Syria, (2) support efforts for a peaceful resolution of the conflict in Syria, and (3) contribute to future capacity building for governing institutions after a political transition takes place in Syria. Urges: (1) the allocation of funding for bilateral assistance programs in Syria. And (2) the United States to work with other donor nations to increase international contributions for the people of Syria. (3) the President to increase bilateral funding to countries, including Iraq, Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon, that have experienced an influx of Syrian refugees. And (4) the United States to work with regional partners to secure conventional and unconventional weapons stockpiles in Syria and prevent their illicit sale or transfer out of Syria. Directs the President to instruct the Secretary of State to work with the appropriate United Nations (U. N.) agencies, regional organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and the broader international community to establish an international donors group to provide humanitarian assistance for the people of Syria.
Protection from Sexual Predators Act of 1997 - Expresses the sense of the Congress that States should: (1) more seriously consider the relatively high recidivism rate of sexual offenders when deciding whether to plea bargain with or grant parole to sexual offenders. And (2) review treatment and parole supervision programs for sexual offenders to assure that such programs are fulfilling their goals. Amends the Federal criminal code to provide that whoever violates provisions regarding aggravated sexual abuse after previously having been convicted of another State or Federal sexual abuse offense shall be imprisoned for life. Amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to require a State, to be eligible for a truth in sentencing incentive grant, to provide assurances to the Attorney General that such State has in effect laws which allow the court to impose a sentence of life in prison without parole on a defendant in a criminal case who is convicted of a State offense for conduct which is a sexual abuse or aggravated sexual abuse offense under the Federal criminal code after having previously been convicted of another State or Federal sexual abuse or aggravated sexual abuse offense. Requires the National Institute of Justice to carry out a study of persistent sexual predators and to report to the Congress and the President.
Reducing Special Education Through Prevention Act - Amends the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) to establish a program of grants to improve school-based early intervention services for children with emotional disturbances. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make program grants to State or local educational agencies to develop and implement strategies to reduce the number of children who have, or who are at risk of developing, emotional disturbances that require special education and related services under IDEA. Includes among authorized activities: (1) universal, primary prevention strategies at the school level. (2) early intervention services and individual support for such children who are not currently served under IDEA, (3) coordination among schools, families, and other service provider systems, and (4) staff training and professional development.
Child Support Assurance Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make grants to up to six States for demonstration programs to establish or improve a system of assured minimum child support payments. Requires the custodial parent to have, or be in the process of obtaining, a child support award, or the child to have good cause for the absence of such an award, to qualify for the program. Authorizes appropriations.
Consumer Data Protection Act This bill amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to direct a consumer reporting agency experiencing a data breach to: (1) notify the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), other appropriate law enforcement agencies, and affected individuals. (2) provide affected individuals with free credit freezes and credit monitoring services. And (3) establish a consumer assistance unit. The bill also establishes legal enforcement provisions concerning data breaches at consumer reporting agencies. The CFPB may examine a consumer reporting agency to assess compliance with personal information protection laws.
National Flood Insurance Program Commitment to Policyholders and Reform Act of 2005 - Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on whether the mandatory flood insurance coverage purchase requirements of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 should extend to properties located in the 500-year floodplain. Requires the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to report annually to Congress on the extent to which updating and modernization of all floodplain areas and flood-risk zones has been completed. Amends the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 to: (1) increase from $350 to $2,000 the civil monetary penalty for mortgage lender failures to require flood insurance. And (2) eliminate the $100,000 cap on the total amount of such penalties assessed against any single regulated lending institution or enterprise during any calendar year. Requires the FEMA Director to: (1) establish an appeals process through which holders of a flood insurance policy may appeal decisions on claims, proofs of loss, and loss estimates relating to such flood insurance policy. (2) enforce the minimum training and education requirements for insurance agents who sell certain flood insurance policies. (3) issue regulations to implement specified requirements of the Bunning-Bereuter-Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004. And (4) identify for Congress each regulation, order, notice, and other material issued by the Director to implement each provision of such Act. Amends the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to increase the maximum flood insurance coverage limits for residential property. Prescribes coverage of additional living expenses and business interruption. Increases from $3.5 billion to $22 billion the borrowing authority vested in the Director. Requires the Director to report to Congress a plan for repaying any amounts borrowed pursuant to such increase. Instructs the Director to: (1) issue regulations and revise materials to clarify replacement cost coverage under the national flood insurance program. And (2) revise regulations, forms, notices, guidance, and publications regarding the full cost of repair or replacement under the replacement cost coverage to more clearly describe such coverage and to avoid providing misleading information to policyholders. Requires the Director to report semi-annually to Congress on the financial status of the national flood insurance program. Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to require a good faith estimate to include a conspicuous statement that flood insurance coverage for residential real estate is generally available under the National Flood Insurance Program whether or not the real estate is located in an area having special flood hazards and that, to obtain such coverage, a home owner or purchaser should contact a hazard insurance provider. Amends the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to include among eligible mitigation plan activities the demolition and rebuilding of structures located in areas having special flood hazards to at least Base Flood Elevation or any higher elevation required by any local ordinance. Authorizes the Director to employ additional FEMA staff.
Military Spouses Residency Relief Act - Amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to prohibit, for purposes of voting for a federal, state, or local office, deeming a person to have lost a residence or domicile in a state, acquired a residence or domicile in any other state, or become a resident in or of any other state solely because the person is absent from a state because the person is accompanying the person's spouse who is absent from the state in compliance with military or naval orders. Prohibits a servicemember's spouse from either losing or acquiring a residence or domicile for purposes of taxation because of being absent or present in any US tax jurisdiction solely to be with the servicemember in compliance with the servicemember's military orders if the residence or domicile is the same for the servicemember and the spouse. Prohibits a spouse's income from being considered income earned in a tax jurisdiction if the spouse is not a resident or domiciliary of such jurisdiction when the spouse is in that jurisdiction solely to be with a servicemember serving under military orders. Suspends land rights residency requirements for spouses accompanying servicemembers serving under military orders.
Authorizes the President to enter into a bilateral agreement between the United States and Turkey that provides for the reduction and ultimate elimination of tariffs and nontariff barriers to trade and the eventual establishment of a free trade agreement between the two countries. Requires the President to consult with Congress before entering into any trade agreement under this Act. Sets forth congressional procedures for consideration of implementing legislation with respect to a United States-Turkey Free Trade Agreement.
Technological Resource to Assist Criminal Enforcement (TRACE) Act - Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to require a licensed manufacturer or importer of firearms to: (1) test fire manufactured or imported firearms as specified by the Attorney General. (2) prepare ballistics images of the fired bullet and cartridge casings. (3) make the records available to the Attorney General for entry into a computerized database. And (4) store the fired bullet and cartridge casings. Directs the Attorney General to assist firearm manufacturers and importers in complying with these requirements by: (1) acquiring, installing, and upgrading ballistics equipment and bullet and cartridge casing recovery equipment. (2) hiring or designating sufficient personnel to develop and maintain a ballistics database, (3) providing education about the role of ballistics. And (4) providing for the coordination among law enforcement, regulatory agencies, and the firearm industry to curb firearm-related crime and illegal firearm trafficking. Requires the Attorney General to: (1) establish a computer system through which State and local law enforcement agencies can promptly access ballistics records, (2) require training for all ballistics examiners. (3) conduct mandatory ballistics testing of all firearms obtained by or in the possession of the Department of Justice. And (4) report to Congress on the implementation of this Act. Prohibits the use of ballistics information of individual guns for prosecutorial purposes unless officials have a reasonable belief that a crime has been committed and that ballistics information would assist in the investigation.
Fast Track to College Act of 2008 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award matching six-year grants to local educational agencies (LEAs) that partner with institutions of higher education (IHEs) to establish or support dual enrollment programs, such as early college high schools, that allow high school students to simultaneously earn credit toward a high school diploma and a postsecondary degree or certificate. Gives grant priority to applicants: (1) that propose to establish or support a dual enrollment program for a student body at least 40 of which is impoverished. And (2) from states that provide assistance to dual enrollment programs, such as assistance defraying the costs of higher education. Requires applicants to make assurances that students will not be required to pay tuition or fees for postsecondary courses, and that those courses will be taught by faculty that meet their partner IHE's normal standards. Authorizes the Secretary to award six-year grants to states to: (1) plan and implement statewide strategies to make dual enrollment programs more accessible to students who are underrepresented in postsecondary education. And (2) provide technical assistance to local dual enrollment programs. Directs the Secretary to: (1) contract for an independent evaluation of this Act's programs. And (2) provide technical assistance to LEAs and their partners, and disseminate information concerning best practices in dual enrollment programs.
Fox-Wisconsin Heritage Parkway National Heritage Area Act of 2010 - Establishes the Fox-Wisconsin Heritage Parkway National Heritage Area in Wisconsin. Designates the Fox-Wisconsin Heritage Parkway as the local coordinating entity for the Heritage Area. Requires the Fox-Wisconsin Heritage Parkway to prepare and submit a management plan for the Heritage Area. Sets forth requirements for the approval or disapproval of the management plan.
Agricultural Water Conservation Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for water conservation system expenses, if used on farm land having an extreme drought or a water shortage and meeting other requirements. Limits the amount of the credit and allows unused credit to be carried to the succeeding taxable year. Reduces by the amount of the credit any basis increase that would otherwise occur.
Amends Federal aviation law to require the Secretary of Transportation to investigate and hold a public hearing with respect to each petition by the sponsor of a commercial service airport claiming that fares for air transportation at an airport are unreasonably high, or that competition between air carriers at the airport is inadequate. Directs the Secretary to: (1) issue written findings in response to the issues raised in the petition. And (2) report to Congress the results of the investigations, if any. Directs the Secretary to review the marketing practices of air carriers that may inhibit the availability of quality, affordable air transportation services to commercial service airports. Requires the Secretary, if it is determined that one or more marketing practices of air carriers inhibit such services, to issue regulations addressing such practices.
Brownfield Redevelopment and Economic Development Innovative Financing Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish the Brownfield Redevelopment and Economic Development Innovative Financing Program, under which the Secretary may guarantee the repayment of loans made by lenders to local governments, local redevelopment agencies, or Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC) redevelopment projects to carry out projects for redeveloping brownfields and promoting urban renewal. Requires such an entity, in order to receive such a loan guarantee, to submit: (1) a master plan that describes the proposed brownfield redevelopment project, demonstrates that such project will result in major redevelopment, provides evidence of investment commitments from non-federal entities, and includes a remediation action plan approved by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). And (2) a certification from EPA that the brownfield to be redeveloped requires environmental remediation. Prohibits an entity from: (1) receiving a loan guarantee if it was responsible for contaminating the brownfield to be redeveloped, or (2) having more than one outstanding loan that is guaranteed under the Program. Sets forth requirements regarding an eligible loan's principal amount, interest rate, duration, and repayment terms. Directs the Secretary to establish criteria for selecting entities to receive loan guarantees.
Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment Implementation Act of 2009 - Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should work to establish agreements to promote coordinated action among the United States, Russia, Canada, Iceland, Norway, and Denmark and other seafaring and Arctic nations with respect to navigation, monitoring of conditions, and marine pollution in waters of the Arctic. Requires the Commandant of the Coast Guard to: (1) submit the High Latitude Polar Ice-Breaking Mission Analysis Report to Congress, along with any recommendations related to it. (2) contract with an independent entity to analyze future mission requirements of the Coast Guard in the Arctic and Antarctic. And (3) prepare vessel traffic risk assessments for the Bering Strait, Alaska, and for the Arctic Ocean waters adjacent to Alaska's North Slope. Directs the Commandant to consult with the Secretary of the Army to determine the viability of making the harbor at St. George Island, Alaska, a fully functional harbor of refuge throughout the year to enhance safety of life at sea and protection from oil pollution in the Central Bering Sea. Directs the Secretary of the Army to complete the harbor at St. George Island, including such improvements and any engineering design needed for safe navigation. Requires a study on the feasibility and potential of establishing a deep water sea port in the Arctic to protect and advance US strategic interests within the Arctic region. Requires the Director of the National Science Foundation to transfer all amounts provided pursuant to any Act for procurement of polar icebreaking services to the United States Coast Guard Appropriation Accounts, to remain available until expended for operating expenses, renovation, and improvement. Authorizes appropriations to: (1) the Department of Homeland Security for icebreaking operations, Arctic seasonal operations, vessel traffic risk assessments, and construction of bases in Barrow, Nome, and Saint Paul Island, Alaska. And (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for hydrographic data acquisition and services and coastal change analysis in the Arctic.
Prohibits such capability from being enabled unless the user consent in advance. Provides exceptions for any such capability reasonably needed to: (1) determine whether a user is a licensed or authorized user, (2) provide technical support for such software. Or (3) enable an employer to monitor computer usage by employees within the scope of employment authorized by applicable Federal, State, or local law. Requires the protection of information collected through such exceptions. Treats each violations of such requirements and prohibition as an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Authorizes a software provider to disclose such information to law enforcement officials or a court under a warrant or court order . Requires a court issuing such an order to ensure appropriate safeguards on the use of such information. Provides a private right of action for users for enforcement of this Act. Authorizes a court, in such an action, to issue a protective order and conduct proceedings so as to protect trade secrets.
Department of Homeland Security Component Privacy Officer Act of 2008 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to designate a full-time privacy official for each of the following Department of Homeland Security (DHS) components: (1) the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), (2) the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS), (3) Customs and Border Protection (CBP), (4) Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), (5) the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), (6) the Coast Guard, (7) the Directorate of Science and Technology, (8) the Office of Intelligence and Analysis. And (9) the Directorate for National Protection and Programs. Grants each component's privacy official primary responsibility for implementing the privacy policy for DHS established by DHS's privacy officer. Requires each designated privacy official to report directly to both the component head and DHS's privacy officer. Lists the responsibilities of each component privacy official, including: (1) serving as DHS's privacy officer's main point of contact at the component to implement that officer's policies and directives. (2) advising the component head on privacy considerations when any law, regulation, or guideline is proposed, developed, or implemented. (3) assuring that the use of technologies sustains or enhances privacy protections, (4) identifying privacy issues related to component programs. (5) monitoring the component's compliance with all applicable federal privacy laws and regulations. (6) assisting in drafting and reviewing privacy impact assessments, privacy threshold assessments, and system of records notices. (7) implementing and monitoring privacy training for component employees and contractors in coordination with DHS's privacy officer. And (8) providing DHS's privacy officer with written materials and information regarding the relevant activities of the component, including privacy violations and abuse, that are needed to successfully prepare reports for Congress and on behalf of DHS. Directs each component head to ensure that the component's privacy official: (1) has the information, resources, and access to material and personnel necessary to fulfill his or her responsibilities. (2) is advised of proposed policy changes and the development of new programs, regulations, procedures, or guidelines during the planning stages, and (3) is included in decision-making.
Iran Intelligence Oversight Act - Requires the Director of National Intelligence, within 90 days after the enactment of this Act, to submit to Congress an updated National Intelligence Estimate on Iran. Directs, within the same time frame: (1) the President to report on the objectives of US policy on Iran, as well as the strategy for achieving such objectives. And (2) the Director to report on the process for vetting and clearing statements of Administration officials that are drawn from or rely upon intelligence.
Communist China Subsidy Reduction Act of 1997 - Amends the International Financial Institutions Act to direct the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US Executive Directors at each international financial institution to vote to oppose the provision of concessional loans to China, any Chinese citizen or national, or any Chinese entity. Expresses the sense of the Congress that US nationals conducting industrial cooperation projects in China should adhere to certain principles, including: (1) suspending the use of any merchandise that they have reason to believe was produced by convict or forced labor, and refusing to use forced labor in their projects. (2) seeking to ensure that political or religious views, sex, ethnic or national background, or association with dissidents will not prohibit hiring, lead to harassment, demotion, or dismissal, or otherwise affect the employment status of an individual employed in the industrial cooperation project. (3) ensuring that methods of production used in the projects do not pose unnecessary danger to workers and the surrounding neighborhoods and environment. (4) striving to establish private business enterprises when involved in a project with the Government of China. (5) discouraging any military presence on the premises of the project, (6) promoting freedom of association and assembly among employees. (7) providing the Department of State with information relevant to its efforts to collect information on prisoners for purposes of the Prisoner Information Registry. (8) discouraging or preventing compulsory political indoctrination programs from taking place on project premises, (9) promoting freedom of expression of all kinds. And (10) preventing harassment of workers who decide freely the number and spacing of their children, and prohibiting compulsory population control activities on the premises of the project. Directs the Secretary of State to forward a copy of these principles to the member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and encourage them to promote similar principles. Directs each US national conducting an industrial cooperation project in China to register with the Secretary and indicate whether they agree to implement such principles. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to give preference to US nationals who have adopted such principles when selecting participants for trade missions to China. Directs US agencies that engage in educational, cultural, scientific, agricultural, military, legal, political, and artistic exchanges to initiate and expand such exchange programs with regard to China. Expresses the sense of the Congress that a federally chartered not-for-profit organization should be established to fund exchanges between the United States and China through private donations.
Postresearch Chimpanzee Care Act - Amends title IV of the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide for the establishment and operation of a national sanctuary system for all surplus federally owned chimpanzees that are no longer needed in research conducted or supported by the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, or other Federal agencies. Mandates that any surplus chimpanzee that is not owned by the Federal Government be accepted into the system if the owner transfers title to the chimpanzee to the Federal Government. Provides for standards for permanent retirement of surplus chimpanzees into the system. Requires such standards to authorize the Secretary to authorize imposition of a fee for accepting a non-Federal chimpanzee into the system. Outlines provisions for the awarding of contracts for operation of the system. Provides for funding.
Small Business Interest Checking Act of 2001- Amends the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to repeal the proscription against payment of interest on demand deposits. Authorizes certain depository institutions prohibited by State law from offering demand deposits to offer all owners of a interest- or dividend-paying deposit or account to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instruments for the purpose of making payments to third parties. Requires that such an institution either: (1) not engage in lending activities. Or (2) not be an affiliate of a company or companies whose aggregate assets represent over ten percent of the institution's total assets. Amends Federal banking law governing interaccount transfers to provide that a depository institution may permit owners of certain interest- or dividend-paying accounts to make up to 24 transfers monthly for any purpose to their other accounts in the same institution. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to authorize a Federal reserve bank to pay interest at least quarterly to a depository institution on any balance it maintains at the reserve bank. Repeals a specified restriction in order to authorize pass-through reserves for member banks . Instructs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to obtain annually a prescribed survey of designated retail bank fees and services , and report the results annually to Congress. Reformulates the mandatory depository institution reserve ratio to: (1) one that is not greater than three percent, and may be zero, for transaction accounts of $25 million or less. And (2) reduce from eight percent to zero the minimum ratio for transaction accounts exceeding $25 million. Requires the Federal Reserve banks to transfer certain surplus funds for deposit into the general fund of the Treasury equal to the estimated net cost of making the quarterly payments of interest mandated by this Act for FY 2002 through 2006. Prohibits such banks from replenishing surplus funds by the amount of any such transfers during that time period.
Directs the Secretary of the military department concerned, in the case of a regular or reserve member of the Armed Forces with a combat-related disability who is entitled to monthly retired pay, to permit such member to elect an alternative retired pay rate based on $2,917, the average monthly salary for high school graduates in the United States. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with respect to veterans with service-connected disabilities, to permit such veterans to elect to receive a monthly compensation of $2,917 or a percentage of such amount .
Supporting Education for Returning Veterans Act of 2008 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award three-year grants to institutions of higher education to establish programs that support veterans who are students by providing and coordinating services that address their academic, financial, physical, and social needs. Requires each grantee to establish a campus Center of Excellence for Veteran Student Success that provides a single point of contact for the coordination of comprehensive support services for students who are veterans. Requires the Secretary to develop an evaluation and accountability plan for measuring the effect such programs have on veterans' success in postsecondary education.
Mortgage Disclosure Simplification Act of 2007 - Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to instruct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to develop and prescribe standard written forms stating the essential terms of a federally related mortgage loan, which lenders or mortgage brokers shall provide to prospective mortgagors. Requires such disclosures to include: (1) a statement of terms regarding a federally related mortgage loan. And (2) a statement of basic easy-to-understand definitions or explanations of such terms.
Montgomery GI Bill Improvements Act of 2001 - Amends Federal basic educational assistance provisions to eliminate the pay reduction currently required of service members as a precondition to eligibility for benefits Permits certain service members to transfer their entitlement to benefits to their spouses or dependent children. Extends the period after discharge during which former service members may utilize their benefits. Increases benefits available to members of the Selected Reserve called to active duty as part of a contingency operation.
Positive Train Control Safety Act This bill authorizes the Department of Transportation (DOT) to extend the deadline, in one-year increments, for implementation of positive train control systems if full implementation by the existing deadline will likely be infeasible due to circumstances beyond the control of the applicant, and other certain other criteria are met. Each Class I railroad carrier, and each entity providing regularly scheduled intercity or commuter rail passenger transportation, must submit annual progress reports to DOT on the status of fits implementation plan. Such plans shall now be required for any such carrier or entity governing operations on a main line over which 20 or more tank cars loaded with petroleum crude oil, ethanol, or other Class 3 material are transported. DOT shall assess electromagnetic spectrum needs and availability for implementing positive train control systems. Applicable railroad carriers shall establish a confidential close call reporting system program subject to DOT regulations. A railroad carrier providing commuter rail passenger transportation on high density commuter railroad lines, when performing a required inspection, shall: at least once each two weeks traverse each line by vehicle or inspect each main line on foot, and at least once each month traverse and inspect each siding by vehicle or by foot. DOT shall: study the effectiveness of positive train control and related technologies on reducing collisions at highway-rail grade crossings. And promulgate regulations to require that on-track safety programs, whenever practicable and consistent with other safety requirements and operational considerations, include requiring implementation of redundant signal protection, such as shunting, for maintenance-of-way work crews who depend on a train dispatcher to provide signal protection.
Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require institutions of higher education (IHEs) to include in their annual security report policies encouraging the accurate and prompt reporting of all crimes to campus police and appropriate law enforcement agencies when crime victims elect to, or are unable to, report the crimes. Requires that report to include: (1) data on the occurrence of certain violent crimes that are motivated by the victim's nationality. And (2) statistics concerning the occurrence of domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking incidents reported to campus security authorities or local police. Requires schools to protect victim confidentiality when reporting criminal threats to the campus community. Directs IHEs to include in their annual security report a statement of policy regarding their programs to prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking and the procedures they follow when such an offense is reported. Requires an IHE's policy regarding those offenses to include: education that promotes awareness of the offenses, possible sanctions or protective measures imposed following disciplinary action, procedures victims should follow after such an offense occurs, institutional disciplinary procedures, information about how the IHE will protect victim confidentiality. The written notification of students and employees concerning on-campus and community services available for victims. And the written notification of victims regarding their options for, and assistance in, changing academic, living, transportation, and working situations, regardless of whether or not they choose to report the crime. Requires students and employees who report having been the victim of such an offense to their IHE, whether it occurred on or off campus, to receive a written notification of their rights and options under the IHE's policy. Directs the Secretary of Education to seek the counsel of the Attorney General and Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) regarding the development, and dissemination to IHEs, of best practices for preventing and responding to incidents of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
Airport and Airway Trust Fund Financing Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to (1) impose an excise tax on aviation-grade kerosene of 35.9 cents per gallon. (2) increase to 24.1 cents per gallon the tax rate for aviation gasoline. And (3) extend through FY2011 the excise tax on the transportation by air of persons and property and the excise tax on aviation gasoline and aviation-grade kerosene. Extends through FY2011 the expenditure authority for the Airport and Airway Trust Fund. Dedicates revenues from the taxes imposed on aviation gasoline and aviation-grade kerosene to carry out air traffic control modernization.
Apples for Teachers Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) make the two percent floor on miscellaneous itemized deductions inapplicable to the qualified professional development expenses incurred by teachers. And (2) allow a credit to elementary and secondary school teachers who provide classroom materials.
Health Care Continuation Coverage Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a program to provide premium assistance for qualified individuals for Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA) continuation coverage under the Public Health Service Act, the Internal Revenue Code, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Requires States to provide temporary Medicaid coverage, under title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act, for individuals who: (1) have become totally or partially separated from employment on or after July 1, 2001, (2) are not eligible for COBRA continuation coverage. And (3) are not covered under a group health plan, health insurance, Medicare, or Medicaid. Includes coverage of such individuals' spouses and dependents who are also uninsured. Requires States, under Medicaid, to pay the unsubsidized portion of COBRA continuation benefits for individuals who: (1) have become totally or partially separated from employment on or after July 1, 2001. And (2) are eligible for COBRA continuation coverage. Includes coverage of such individuals' spouses and dependents who are also eligible and otherwise uninsured. Amends the Food Stamp Act of 1977 to exclude unemployment compensation in determining eligibility and benefits under such Act.
Troubled Assets Relief Program Targeted Assets Act of 2009 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to establish the Troubled Asset Restoration and Assistance Program (TARAP) to allow the Treasury to purchase lender or servicer losses on rehabilitated mortgages, on terms and conditions determined by the Secretary. Directs the Treasury, acting through TARAP, to pay up to 80 of the difference between the original asset and the rehabilitated asset to the lender or servicer under certain conditions. Permits the portion of the difference between the original asset and the rehabilitated asset to the lender or servicer that is not paid for by the Secretary to be written to loss. Requires any regulations and other guidance the Secretary may issue to determine qualifications for an independent appraiser, and make final determinations as to: (1) whether an asset is troubled. (2) what the values are that will determine the amount of purchase. (3) the amount of reductions in the purchase price for certain otherwise ineligible assets. And (4) any other functionality issues required to operate the program. Authorizes the Secretary, conforming to specified guidelines, to make all necessary rules and determinations regarding documented best efforts, required timelines, and other processes and procedures. Identifies criteria for eligible assets and eligible lenders or servicers. Sunsets TARAP on December 31, 2009. Prohibits, for a 90-day period, a mortgage servicer, or holder, from taking action to initiate a foreclosure, or any action in connection with a foreclosure already instituted , with respect to any eligible mortgage of a consumer. Entitles a consumer to defer initiation of a foreclosure, or any action in connection with one already instituted by any creditor, servicer, or holder of a mortgage, until the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
Central American and USA Initiatives Act or the CAUSA Initiatives Act - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to work with Canada, Mexico, and the countries of Central America to establish a program to: assess the needs of Central American countries to maintain the security of their international borders. Determine the support needed by such countries from the United States, Canada, and Mexico to meet such needs. And assess the current structure for handling displaced minors and other vulnerable individuals in Central American countries and make recommendations to improve such structure. Directs the Secretary to work with: the Caribbean countries to establish a program to address maritime border security. And Mexico to establish a program to help secure Mexico's southern border from undocumented aliens, drugs, weapons, and other contraband. Directs the Secretary, through the Commissioner of US Customs and Border Protection, to: ensure that adequate facilities and sustaining needs are provided to an individual apprehended and detained by the Border Patrol as soon as practicable, ensure that an individual unlawfully present in the United States who is apprehended by a Border Patrol agent is promptly provided with information concerning such individual's rights, and maintain a database on individuals unlawfully present in the United States who are apprehended and detained by Border Patrol agents.
Charles August Long Undiagnosed Diseases Research and Collaboration Network Act of 2011 or the CAL Undiagnosed Diseases Research and Collaboration Network Act of 2011 - Requires the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to establish and maintain an undiagnosed diseases patient network. Includes among the purposes of the CAL Network to: (1) provide physicians who are handling cases of undiagnosed diseases with a means to search for similar cases and to network and collaborate with physicians handling similar cases, (2) better enable and examine cross-disease research. (3) better describe the types and prevalence of cases of undiagnosed diseases in the United States. And (4) provide such data necessary to better understand the length of time for a diagnosis to be rendered and to identify barriers to diagnoses and reasons for misdiagnosis of diseases. Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to, and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with, public or private nonprofit entities for: (1) the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on cases of undiagnosed diseases and other disorders that can often go undiagnosed or be misdiagnosed as other diseases or disorders, and (2) the establishment of separate undiagnosed disease programs.
Drug Price Competition Act of 2009 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to expand the definition of first applicant under such Act to allow a generic drug manufacturer that is currently considered an applicant subsequent to a brand-name manufacturer's 180-day exclusivity period to qualify as a first applicant for purposes of filing an abbreviated application for a new drug. Requires such applicant to submit a substantially complete application that contains and lawfully maintains a certification for such drug.
Universal Access to Affordable Health Insurance for all Americans Act of 2004 - Directs the Office of Personnel Management to: (1) administer a health insurance program for non-Federal employees. And (2) enter into contracts with carriers to make health benefits plans available to eligible individuals. Allows the Office to require carriers to offer such a plan to be eligible to enter into a contract for a Federal Employees Health Benefit (FEHB) plan. Prohibits individuals from joining the plan that are: (1) 65 years of age or older. (2) eligible to enroll for coverage under a public health insurance program, (3) eligible to enroll in a FEHB plan. Or (4) members of the uniformed services. Allows rates charged and premiums paid for such a plan to differ among geographic regions. Prohibits any Government contribution to such plans. Requires the Office to keep individuals under such plans in a separate risk pool from individuals covered under a FEHB plan. Amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for refundable credits for payments made to such plans. Provides for full credit for those below the poverty line, and gradually decreasing credit based on individual income. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to make advance payments to such a plan on behalf of an enrollee equal to the Secretary's estimate of the amount of credit allowable for the enrollee.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) treat income and gains from the use, sale, or exchange of infrastructure property as qualifying income for purposes of the tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships. (2) exempt publicly-traded partnerships from the limitation on the tax deduction for income attributable to oil-related qualified production activities, (3) allow accelerated depreciation of infrastructure property. And (4) treat exchanges of infrastructure property as like-kind exchanges . Defines infrastructure property as property which is part of: (1) roads and related improvements, (2) train tracks and related improvements, (3) airports, (4) docks and wharves. (5) facilities for sewage, solid waste disposal, the furnishing of water, the transmission and distribution of natural gas, or the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, or (6) communications facilities.
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) to reduce, through December 31, 2008 , the duty on certain cotton shirting fabrics. Limits the quantity of imported cotton woven fabric entered by or on behalf of each manufacturer of men's and boy's shirts. Provides for the issuance of import licenses subject to such limitation. Establishes the Pima Cotton Trust Fund within the Treasury, consisting of transfers from the general fund in amounts attributable to the duty received since January 1, 1994, on woven fabrics of cotten under specified HTSUS headings. Provides for annual distribution of amounts from such Fund to a nationally recognized association of shirting manufacturers for the promotion of US-grown pima cotton, and to yarn spinners of such cotton.
Allows the use of amounts in an individual retirement plan to make loans of up to $10,000 to purchase a home for a first-time homebuyer on behalf of an eligible participant or a family member. Prohibits a related interest deduction. Requires repayment within 15 years.
Calling for 2-1-1 Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to award a grant to each State to carry out a program for making available throughout that State the 2-1-1 telephone service for information and referral on human services. Requires a participating State to ensure that at least 50 percent of the resources of the program funded by the grant will be derived from other sources. Requires a State seeking a grant to carry out its activities through a lead entity to be known as a 2-1-1 Collaborative. Requires grant amounts to be used solely to make available to a State 2-1-1 telephone service for community information and referral on human services, including telephone connections between families and individuals seeking services and the service providers. Requires grant recipients to: (1) abide by the Key Standards for 2-1-1 Centers. And (2) collaborate with human service organizations to provide an exhaustive database of services with which to provide information or referral to individuals utilizing the 2-1-1 service.
Building Bridges and Transforming Resentment and Unfairness to Support and Trust for Municipal Law Enforcement Act of 2014 or the Build TRUST Act of 2014 - Reduces the amount that would otherwise be awarded to a unit of local government under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program: (1) by 75 for any such unit that, during the previous three fiscal years, funded an amount that on average was greater than 18 of its operating budget using revenue generated from collecting fines and other fees related to violations of traffic laws. And (2) by 95 for any such unit for which, during the previous fiscal year, the percentage of individuals who identify as a race who were employees of the law enforcement agency for that unit and the percentage of individuals who identify as that race who live in the jurisdiction such agency serves differ by greater than 30. Reduces by 50 the amount that would otherwise be awarded under such Program to a state that did not reduce a subgrant award to a unit of local government in accordance with this Act in the preceding fiscal year. Requires the Attorney General to reallocate funds withheld from a state or unit of local government pursuant to this Act in accordance with the Program. Exempts any local governmental unit which certifies that it serves a population of less than 15,000 or to which the Attorney General has granted a waiver for good cause shown based on specified factors, including that: (1) such unit has taken affirmative action to ensure that adequate practices and procedures are in place to increase public trust and confidence in the impartial and equitable administration of justice, and (2) the minority community is equitably represented in the unit's legislative body and executive departments.
Pay Accountability Act - Requires the pay of Members of Congress, the President, and the Vice President to be withheld during any period of: (1) a lapse in appropriations for any federal agency as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution, or (2) the federal government's inability to make payments or meet obligations because the public debt limit. Provides for such withheld amounts to be deposited in an escrow account to be transferred to the Secretary of the Treasury and deposited in the Treasury for deficit reduction.
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend, through December 31, 2007, the duty on Disperse Orange 30, Disperse Blue 79:1, Disperse Red 167:1, Disperse Yellow 64, Disperse Red 60, Disperse Blue 60, Disperse Blue 77, Disperse Yellow 42, Disperse Red 86, and Disperse Red 86:1.
Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct and support research that utilizes human embryonic stem cells, regardless of the date on which the stem cells were derived from a human embryo. Limits such research to stem cells that meet the following requirements: (1) the stem cells were derived from human embryos donated from in vitro fertilization clinics, were created for the purposes of fertility treatment, and were in excess of the needs of the individuals seeking such treatment. (2) prior to donation, it was determined that the embryos would never be implanted in a woman and would otherwise be discarded. And (3) the individuals seeking fertility treatment donated the embryos with written informed consent and received no financial or other inducements. Requires the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to issue guidelines on research involving human embryonic stem cells. Authorizes the Director to issue guidelines on research involving other human stem cells, as scientifically warranted. Provides for updates of guidelines under this Act. Directs the Secretary to take into consideration guidelines on human stem cell research developed by nationally- and internationally- recognized scientific organizations. Requires NIH research to comply with guidelines under this Act. Requires the Director to: (1) determine the extent to which the guidelines under this Act apply to research on human embryonic stem cells derived before the effective date of such guidelines. And (2) include in its biennial report to Congress a summary of research activities on human stem cells.
Educational Opportunity for All Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a refundable tax credit for qualfied tuition expenses. Defines qualified tuition expenses as tuition required for the enrollment of the taxpayer, the taxpayer's spouse or dependents at an institution of higher learning. Limits the annual amount of such credit to $4,000 per student.
Working Families Flexibility Act of 1996 - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) to provide for compensatory time for all employees. Allows an employee to receive, in lieu of monetary overtime compensation, compensatory time off at a rate not less than one and one-half hours for each hour of employment for which overtime compensation is required under the Act. Allows an employer to provide such compensatory time only: (1) pursuant to an agreement with employee representatives, or, where there are no designated representatives, with the employee if such agreement was entered into knowingly and voluntarily. (2) if a private employee has affirmed, in a verifiable statement, the choice of receiving compensatory time in lieu of overtime pay. And (3) if the employee has not accrued compensatory time in excess of applicable limits. Sets forth special rules relating to public employees. Prohibits employer coercion of employees for the purpose of: (1) interfering with their right to choose whether to request compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay. Or (2) requiring them to use compensatory time. Limits to not more than 240 hours the amount of compensatory time an employee may accrue . Requires payment of compensation at the prescribed regular rate for: (1) compensatory time accrued but not used in a calendar year or other designated 12-month period. And (2) unused compensatory time upon termination of employment. Allows an employer to provide monetary compensation at any time after giving the employee at least 30 days notice, at the prescribed regular rate, for an employee's unused compensatory time in excess of 80 hours. Allows an employee to request in writing that monetary compensation be provided at the prescribed regular rate, at any time, for all compensatory time accrued and not yet used. Requires employers to permit employees to use compensatory time within a reasonable period after employees request its use, if such use does not unduly disrupt employers' operations. Makes private employers who violate specified provisions of this Act liable to the employee affected in the amount of the rate of compensation for each hour of compensatory time accrued by the employee, and in an additional equal amount as liquidated damages reduced by the amount of such rate of compensation for each hour of compensatory time used by such employee. Directs the Secretary of Labor to revise materials provided to employers for notices explaining FLSA to employees to reflect amendments made by this Act.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to replace provisions relating to an alternative tax for corporations on capital gains with provisions making 100 percent of the net capital gain of a taxpayer a deduction from gross income. Provides for the treatment of estates and trusts. Requires reducing net capital gain by the amount the taxpayer takes into account as investment income under specified provisions.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a tax on the sale or importation of the following fuels based on their carbon content: coal, petroleum, and natural gas. Provides an inflation adjustment for such tax rates after calendar year 1994.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Preference for Contractors That Hire Welfare Recipients Title II: Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants Title III: Guarantees of Loans Made by States to Current or Recent Welfare Recipients Title IV: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Title V: Restoration of Deductions Job Access and Work Incentives Act - Title I: Preference for Contractors that Hire Welfare Recipients - Requires the head of a department or agency of the Federal Government, in awarding a covered contract , to give preference to an entity that agrees to hire welfare recipients (a recipient of assistance under part A for jobs created to carry out the contract. Title II: Job Access and Reverse Commute Grants - Amends the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century to extend and increase the job access and reverse commute grants program. Title III: Guarantees of Loans Made by States to Current or Recent Welfare Recipients - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide a loan guarantee to a State with respect to a loan if: (1) the loan is made by a State. (2) the borrower is a recipient of assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act. (3) the principal amount of the loan is not less than $20 and not more than $5,000. And (4) the loan bears interest at an annual rate that does not exceed the rate at which interest is payable annually on bonds most recently issued by the smallest political subdivision of the State in which the borrower resides that has borrowing authority. Title IV: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services - Appropriates funds, as specified under the Public Health Service Act, for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Title V: Restoration of Deductions - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the current limitations on the deductions for: (1) meals and entertainment expenses. And (2) luxury water transportation, travel as a form of education, and travel expenses for spouses and dependents.
United States Grain Standards Act Reauthorization Act of 2015 This bill reauthorizes and amends provisions of the United States Grain Standards Act. The Act authorizes the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish official marketing standards for grains, and to provide procedures for grain inspection and weighing. The bill reauthorizes several expiring provisions through FY2020, establishes procedures in the event of an interruption of inspection and weighing services, revises the process for delegating inspections to state agencies, and revises fees for inspection and weighing services. The bill provides that transfers of grain into an export elevator by any mode of transportation are not required to be officially weighed. In the case of a disruption in official grain inspection or weighing services, the bill requires USDA to immediately take the actions necessary to address the disruption and resume services. USDA must also report to Congress on the disruption and provide daily updates until services have resumed. The bill ends the permanent delegation to state agencies to carry out export inspection and weighing services. Every five years, USDA must certify that each state agency with a delegation of authority is meeting specified criteria. The certification process must include public notice and a comment period. State agencies that have been delegated authority and intend to temporarily discontinue official inspection or weighing services, except in the case of a major disaster, must notify USDA in advance. In order to review the performance of states, local agencies, and individuals that have applied to perform official inspections other than at export port locations, USDA must periodically consult with customers of the applicant and work with the applicant to address any concerns. The bill extends the duration of licenses for inspectors from three to five years. Designations of official agencies terminate at a time specified by USDA that is no later than every five years. The bill changes the fee calculation for inspection and weighing services and extends the authority to collect fees through FY2020. The bill extends the limitation on total administrative and supervisory costs, the authorization of appropriations, and the authorization of the advisory committee through FY2020. USDA must report to Congress on the disruption in federal inspection of grain exports at the Port of Vancouver in the summer of 2014. The report must include factors that led or contributed to the disruption and changes in policy USDA has implemented to ensure that a similar disruptions does not occur in the future. USDA must report to Congress on policy barriers to US grain producers in countries that: (1) produce grain that receives official grading in the United States, and (2) do not offer official grading for US grain or provide only the lowest designation for US grain.
Foreign Adopted Children Equality Act or the FACE Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to set forth automatic citizenship criteria for a child adopted outside the United States by a US citizen parent. Deems such an adopted child to be a US citizen at birth. Deems to be a US citizen at birth, after the approval of an application filed within the United States or with a US Embassy, a person who: (1) is older than 18 years of age. (2) was born outside the United States and was adopted by a US citizen parent before such person reached 18 years of age. And (3) was adopted under 16 years of age and has lived with the adoptive parents for at least two years, was abused, or is an orphan who was under 16 years of age at the time an immediate relative status petition was filed on his or her behalf. Includes within the definition of nonimmigrant an individual brought to the United States as a child to be adopted by a US citizen. Expresses the sense of Congress that the government of each foreign country from which children are adopted by US citizens should provide the adoptive family with birth history documentation.
Comprehensive Health Access District Act - Defines: (1) comprehensive health access district as a community in which unemployment and the percentage of residents with incomes below the poverty line are greater than the national average, and in which a majority of certain diseases and conditions occur at rates greater than the national average. And (2) comprehensive community-based health access plan as an entity that provides health care services on a prepaid, capitated basis, or any other risk basis, and that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has certified meets certain requirements. Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to require, among other things, that each Medicaid State plan provide that each comprehensive health access district located within the State is served by a comprehensive community-based health access district plan. Requires each Health Alliance or other health insurance purchasing cooperative created out of comprehensive health care reform legislation that receives premiums on behalf of persons formerly insured under Medicaid, and whose boundaries encompass a comprehensive health access district, to ensure that at least one comprehensive community-based health access plan is available to persons living in such district. Sets forth specified requirements for an entity to be certified as a comprehensive community-based health access plan. Requires the Secretary to designate a community a comprehensive health access district and to certify an entity as a comprehensive health access plan provided they meet certain criteria. Requires each health access plan, in order to evaluate its performance in improving the health status of persons living in comprehensive health access districts, to provide the Secretary with specified health-related information.
Personal Privacy Protection Act - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit and set penalties for harassing any person within the United States or the US special maritime and territorial jurisdiction. Defines harass to mean persistently physically following or chasing a person in a manner that causes such person to have a reasonable fear of bodily injury, in order to capture by a visual or auditory recording instrument any type of visual image, sound recording, or other physical impression of the person for commercial purposes. Prohibits: (1) trespassing on private property in order to capture any type of visual image, sound recording, or other physical impression of any person for commercial purposes. And (2) capturing any such image, recording, or impression of a personal or familial activity through the use of a visual or auditory enhancement device, even if no physical trespass has occurred, if the subject has a reasonable expectation of privacy with respect to the activity captured and if the image, recording, or impression could not have been captured without a trespass if not produced by the use of the enhancement device. Authorizes any person who is legally present in the United States and who is subjected to a violation of this Act to bring a civil action to obtain compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive and declaratory relief. Directs the court to allow the prevailing party reasonable attorney's fees, including expert fees. Specifies that: (1) it shall not be a defense to a prosecution or civil action that no image or recording was captured or sold. And (2) only a person physically present at the time of, and engaging or assisting another in engaging in, a violation is subject to criminal charge or civil liability under this Act. Makes this Act's prohibitions inapplicable to official law enforcement activities.
Transfers to the Administration all functions of the following Federal agencies that relate to administration or enforcement of the food safety laws, as determined by the President: (1) the Food Safety and Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture. (2) the Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), (3) the Center for Veterinary Medicine of FDA. (4) the National Marine Fisheries Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the Department of Commerce as it relates to the Seafood Inspection Program. And (5) such others as the President may designate by executive order.
Amends the Food Security Act of 1985 to reduce maximum annual direct and counter-cyclical commodity payments to $20,000 and $30,000, respectively. Revises limitation provisions for marketing loan gains, loan deficiency payments, and commodity certificate transactions, and establishes an annual combined limitation of $87,500 for such payments. Doubles payment limitations for single farming operations. Limits an individual to a combined annual payment of $275,000.
Political Intelligence Disclosure Act - Amends the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (LDA) to require the disclosure of political intelligence activities. Requires political intelligence consultants to register with the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and make quarterly reports on political intelligence activities. Requires any person or entity that makes an oral political intelligence contact with a covered legislative branch or executive branch official on the official's request to: (1) state whether such person or entity is registered under this Act. (2) identify the client on behalf of whom the contact is made. And (3) state whether such client is a foreign entity, and make any related disclosures. Requires any person making a written political intelligence contact with a covered legislative branch or executive branch official to make similar disclosures, especially about clients considered foreign entities.
Amends Federal transportation law to authorize appropriations for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to participate and cooperate through various means in international activities to enhance motor vehicle and traffic safety. Prohibits a person from affixing a certification label to a motor vehicle or motor vehicle equipment item unless the person has either performed tests or documented the basis for certifying compliance with applicable safety standards. Applies certain defect and motor vehicle safety noncompliance notification requirements to original motor vehicle equipment. Prohibits a dealer from selling a used motor vehicle for other than resale or leasing a used motor vehicle until the dealer informs the purchaser or lessee of any notification of a vehicle defect or noncompliance that has not been remedied and certain other requirements are met. Requires a motor vehicle manufacturer to establish an Internet-accessible record system that used motor vehicle dealers and the public may access, without charge, to determine whether a manufacturer's vehicle has been subject to any notification of a defect or noncompliance that has not been remedied. Requires a person who owns or leases a school bus or motor vehicle used to transport passengers for compensation, and who receives notice of a defect or noncompliance, from operating the vehicle until the defect or noncompliance is remedied. Prohibits a Federal motor vehicle standard from requiring or allowing a manufacturer to comply with it by using a safety belt interlock designed to prevent starting or operating a motor vehicle if the occupant is not using a safety belt. Authorizes the Secretary to expend a specified amount per year to conduct a safety research initiative for alternative fuel vehicles and research into vehicle-based driver assistance technologies. Authorizes appropriations for the NHTSA to carry out certain motor vehicle information and cost savings requirements. Increases civil penalties for persons who violate the prohibition against tampering with motor vehicle odometers.
Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp Promotion Act of 1998 - Amends the Act commonly referred to as the Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp Act to: (1) make such title the legislated short title. And (2) allow the Secretary of the Interior, subject to approval of an annual marketing plan by the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission, to use from receipts from the sale of migratory bird hunting and conservation stamps an amount not to exceed $1 million for each FY from 1999 through 2003 for the promotion of additional stamp sales. Requires the Secretary to: (1) include in each report under the Migratory Bird Conservation Act a statement of all expenditures. And (2) provide a copy to the Commission and specified congressional committees.
Pathways to Prosperity Act of 2014 - Amends the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act to replace specified minimum measures of student attainment in the core indicators of performance for career and technical education students at the secondary level with a measure of the median earnings of students employed during the second quarter after completing a career and technical education program of study in the state. Requires the national research center, established under the Act, to engage in evaluation and technical assistance activities that will assist in: (1) collecting information on the industry-recognized credentials awarded to participants in career and technical education programs, and (2) developing the necessary infrastructure to support the state and local reporting of specified related information. Makes it a responsibility of the state agency involved to establish statewide credit transfer agreements aligned to approved career and technical education programs of study. Requires each local plan for career and technical education programs to describe how the eligible recipient of assistance will partner with business and industry to: (1) identify opportunities for experiential and work-based learning opportunities either in-person or virtually, (2) ensure the career and technical education programs of study are responsive to community and employment demands and meet other specified criteria, and (3) ensure funding under the Act is spent in a coordinated manner with other local resources. Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to revise the purpose of grants for demonstration projects of innovative practices to require the projects to show the most promise of enabling the children served to meet rigorous, state-identified college and career readiness standards that address both certain academic content and certain career and technical education content.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require indexing, based on the consumer price index, of the adjusted basis of certain assets that have been held for more than one year at the time of sale or other transfer, solely for the purpose of determining gain or loss.
Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to preclude federal preemption of a cause of action brought under state law by a participant or beneficiary under a group health plan to recover damages resulting from personal injury or for wrongful death against the plan, the plan sponsor, any health insurance issuer offering health insurance coverage in connection with the plan, or any managed care entity in connection with the plan if such cause of action arises by reason of a medically reviewable decision denying a benefits claim. Allows such a cause of action under state law against any employer or other plan sponsor maintaining the plan to the extent that there was direct participation by the employer or other plan sponsor in such decision. Declares that this waiver of federal preemption does not apply with respect to: (1) any cause of action against an employer or other plan sponsor maintaining the plan , except where the employer or plan sponsor participated directly in the decision to deny the claim. Or (2) a right of recovery, indemnity, or contribution by a person against an employer or other plan sponsor for damages assessed against the person pursuant to a cause of action under state law allowed by this Act.
Arsenic-Treated Wood Mandatory Labeling Act - Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to require that a specified warning label be affixed to arsenic-treated wood sold in the United States.
Protecting Neighborhoods from Oil Pollution Act of 2011 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue final regulations requiring an owner or operator to permanently close any oil storage or processing facility that: (1) is located within one mile of 100 or more residential units if two or more discharges of more than 40 gallons of oil occur at such facility within any 10-year period, or (2) is the source of groundwater contamination affecting 100 or more residential units. Requires such closures to be completed by specified deadlines. Requires such regulations to define permanently close to require: (1) all liquid and sludge to be removed from each container and connecting line associated with such facilities. (2) all such connecting lines and piping to be disconnected from such containers and blanked off, all valves to be closed and locked, and conspicuous signs to be posted on each container stating that it is a permanently closed container and noting the date of closure. And (3) other applicable laws to be followed with respect to clean up and remediation of any other contamination at, or originating from, such facilities. Prohibits the Administrator from including in such regulations exemptions to any of the requirements of this Act for discharges resulting from an act of God, an act of war, or US negligence. Authorizes the Administrator to waive the requirement for closure of such facilities or grant an extension of the closure deadline if the Administrator determines that such owners or operators have taken or are taking all practicable steps to remediate the condition requiring closure. Requires such conditions requiring closure to be considered to be: (1) a substantial threat to the public health or welfare of the United States for the purposes of federal removal authority and civil enforcement, or (2) an imminent and substantial endangerment to the health of persons or to the welfare of persons for the purposes of emergency powers.
NSP Termination Act - Rescinds and cancels permanently all unobligated balances remaining available, as of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for assistance to states and local governments for the redevelopment of abandoned and foreclosed homes and residential properties. Urges that all such rescinded and canceled amounts be retained in the Treasury General Fund for reducing the federal budget deficit. Subjects to possible rescission and permanent cancellation certain amounts allocated by the Secretary under the third round of funding for the NSP to specified states, including city, county, and municipal governments. Amends the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 to repeal emergency FY2008 appropriations for the Program. States that such appropriations, together with amounts made available for the Program in the HUD, Community Planning and Development, Community Development Fund under title XII of division A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, shall continue to be governed by any provisions of law applicable to such amounts as in effect before the repeal. Requires the Secretary to terminate the Program upon the obligation of all such amounts and outlays to liquidate them. Requires the Secretary to publish on the HUD website a statement as to: (1) termination of the NSP. And (2) the availability of a Member of Congress and state, county, and local officials to provide assistance in mitigating the impacts of foreclosed properties on an individual's community. Requires the Comptroller General to study the economic impacts of: (1) round three NSP funding on states and communities that would occur if it were not rescinded and canceled but remained available, and (2) actual round one and round two NSP assistance on those states and communities.
Repeals: (1) the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992. (2) the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996. And (3) the sugar quota prohibition under the Food Security Act of 1985. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to declare the denial of foreign tax credit inapplicable to Cuba after enactment of this Act. Permits: (1) installation and maintenance of telecommunications equipment and facilities in Cuba, including telecommunications services between the United States and Cuba. And (2) travel to and from Cuba by United States citizens or residents. Requires the United States Postal Service to provide direct mail service to and from Cuba. Directs the President to negotiate with the Government of Cuba for the purpose of: (1) settling claims of US nationals for the taking of property by such government, and (2) securing the protection of internationally recognized human rights.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish gender equity requirements and training programs for teachers and other educational personnel with respect to: (1) basic program requirements , innovative projects, schoolwide projects, parental involvement, and program improvement, (2) Even Start progam uses of funds, (3) secondary school programs applications and award of grants, (4) local targeted assistance programs. (5) Eisenhower Mathematics and Science program school teacher training and national programs, (6) Women's Educational Equity personnel training and career education programs, (7) gifted and talented students personnel training. And (8) computer-based instruction personnel training under the Secretary's fund for innovation in education.
Pipeline Improvement and Preventing Spills Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to prescribe minimum standards to require the owner or operator of a pipeline facility to notify all owners and residents of property located within 2,000 feet of a transmission line of: the property's proximity to the line, and the line's specific location if it is on private residential property. DOT shall ensure that industry standards and procedures adopted as part of the federal pipeline safety regulatory program are easily available to the public free of charge. In identifying high-consequence areas, DOT shall consider specified features of a pipe, including its age, whether it can be inspected using the most modern instrumented internal inspection devices, whether it crosses open waters of the Great Lakes, and the type of commodity it transports. The Interagency Coordinating Committee on Oil Pollution Research shall: identify measures to respond to spills or leaks of oil in the Great Lakes. And assess their effectiveness in preventing significant or substantial harm to the public health or welfare. DOT shall: conduct a comprehensive water crossing survey of all intrastate and interstate hazardous liquid pipeline facilities that cross US waterways in the Great Lakes Basin. And enter into a joint agreement with the National Research Council of the National Academies of Sciences to identify gaps in data and information in the Basin pipeline network, and make recommendations to prevent future leaks, ruptures, and failures that could result in damage to Basin waterways and natural resources. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act is amended to: prohibit vessel transportation of crude oil and crude oil derived from oil sands on the Great Lakes, and include in the meaning of quot, worst-case discharge,quot. In the case of an offshore or onshore facility, the largest foreseeable discharge in adverse weather conditions in which waters that may receive a discharge are covered by ice.
Provide for the Common Defense Act of 2013 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to nullify the presidential sequestration order issued for the revised security category for FY2014-FY2015 to enforce a specified budget goal. Establishes the discretionary spending limit for the revised security category for each such fiscal year. Amends part B of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) with respect to adjustments to the calculation of Medicare parts B and D premiums for high income beneficiaries for 2017 and subsequent years. Reduces the monthly amount of the Medicare parts B and D premium subsidies for individuals whose modified adjusted gross income exceeds the threshold amount by specified applicable percentages for modified adjusted gross incomes in certain ranges starting at $85,000 (40) and finally exceeding $214,000 (90). Revises the temporary adjustment to income thresholds used to calculate premiums between January 1, 2011, and December 31, 2019, to extend it through December 31 of the first year after 2019 after the year in which at least 25 of individuals enrolled in the Medicare parts B and D are subject to a reduction to the monthly amount of the applicable premium subsidy. Increases by $25 per year the part B deductible for new enrollees after January 1, 2017, and subsequent years. Amends the Federal Crop Insurance Act to establish caps beginning with FY2014 for: (1) combined crop insurance provider rates of return, and (2) reimbursements for crop insurance provider administrative and operating expenses. Reduces according to a specified formula the crop insurance premium for catastrophic risk protection coverage. Reduces the portion of premium paid by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation for the following coverages: (1) additional insurance, (2) enterprise and whole farm units, (3) area revenue plans, and (4) area yield plans. Requires an additional .4 increase per year, beginning in calendar 2014, in the percentage of basic pay that federal employees or Members of Congress must contribute to their pension plans under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). Reduces government contributions to CSRS and FERS by the amount of such increased employee contributions. Eliminates annuity supplements for federal employees hired after 2013. Revises the definition of ldquo, price index,rdquo. For purposes of cost-of-living adjustments to federal employee benefits, to mean the Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers instead of the Consumer Price Index. Amends SSA title II (OASDI) to require the use of the Chained CPI for calculation of Social Security cost-of-living adjustments.
Keep Student Loans Affordable Act of 2013 - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to extend the 3.4 interest rate on Direct Stafford loans first disbursed to undergraduate students between July 1, 2011, and July 1, 2013, to Direct Stafford loans first disbursed to undergraduate students between July 1, 2011, and July 1, 2014. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify rules for required distributions from tax-exempt pension plans to an employee who dies before such employee's entire interest is distributed to require such interest to be distributed within five years after the death of such employee, subject to exceptions for an eligible designated beneficiary and surviving spouse of such employee. Defines eligible designated beneficiary to include a disabled or chronically-ill individual. Exempts from such modification a binding annuity contract in effect on the enactment date of this Act.
Organic Farmer and Consumer Protection Act of 2017 This bill amends the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 to reauthorize through FY2023 and modify the Department of Agriculture (USDA) National Organic Program (NOP). USDA must modernize the international trade tracking and data collection systems of the NOP, which must include ensuring that trade and transaction certificates are fully traceable without unduly hindering trade. The bill authorizes mandatory funding to be used for this purpose and for maintaining previous database and technology upgrades. The bill modifies requirements for recordkeeping, investigations, and enforcement with respect to the organic certification process to: allow parties to an active investigation to share confidential business information with government officers or employees and certifying agents involved in the investigation, require federal agencies that administer cross-border documentation systems to provide USDA with access to the data from the systems, allow the NOP to grant an accredited certifying agent the authority to require additional documentation or verification before granting certification, and require USDA to issue regulations limiting the type of operations that are excluded from certification. With respect to the accreditation process for certifying agents, the bill: (1) authorizes USDA to oversee and approve certifying agents operating in a foreign country, and (2) requires certifying agents that intend to operate in a foreign country to be annually authorized.
Balanced Trade Act of 2006 - Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to require the President whenever there is a trade deficit that exceeds 2 of the gross domestic product (GDP) to: (1) restrict imports. And (2) proclaim, for a determined period, a temporary import surcharge of not less than 20 ad valorem on articles imported into the United States. (Currently, the President has the authority to temporarily impose import surcharges
Renewable Energy Assistance Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) eliminate the dollar limitation on the tax credit for residential energy efficiency property expenditures and extend such credit through 2016. (2) extend through 2016 the energy tax credit for solar energy and qualified fuel cell property. (3) allow public electric utility property to qualify for the energy tax credit. (4) extend through 2015 the tax credit for nonbusiness energy property. And (5) modify energy efficient appliance tax credit amounts for appliances produced after 2007.
Small Business Asset Investment and Modernization (AIM) Act of 2010 - Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 concerning the 504 program to increase maximum program loan amounts. Authorizes the Administrator of the SBA, from the date of enactment of this Act through FY2012, to approve under such program the refinancing of indebtedness that is secured by a lien on commercial real estate or equipment of a small business, under specified terms and conditions. Limits to $7.5 billion the total amount of such financing in a fiscal year. Authorizes the Administrator, in order to carry out such program, to make personnel appointments of at least one year and not more than six years. Allows the Administrator to eliminate the pension offset for the reemployment of retired federal employees for such purposes.
Veterinary Workforce Expansion Act of 2005 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to eligible entities to improve public health preparedness through increasing the number of veterinarians in the workforce. Defines eligible entities as accredited public or nonprofit schools of veterinary medicine, departments of comparative medicine, departments of veterinary science, schools of public health, or schools of medicine that offer training for veterinarians in a public health practice area. Requires the Secretary to give preference to applicants that demonstrate a comprehensive approach by involving more than one eligible entity. Allows grantees to use funds to: (1) pay the costs associated with construction, the acquisition of equipment, and other capital costs relating to the expansion of existing schools or departments. And (2) pay the capital costs associated with the expansion of academic programs that offer postgraduate training for veterinarians or concurrent training for veterinary students in specific areas of specialization
Revised Statutes 2477 Rights-of-Way Settlement Act - Authorizes any State, political subdivision thereof, or other holder of a right-of-way across public lands that was granted under section 2477 of the Revised Statutes before the enactment of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, or any person who uses or could use the right-of-way for passage across such lands to access property in which such person has an interest, to file with the appropriate Secretary of the Department concerned a notice of the right-of-way. Directs the Secretary to notify the holder of the recognition or objections of the Secretary to the right-of-way or any portion thereof within two years or the right-of-way shall be deemed to be valid. Allows the Secretary to bring an action to challenge the validity of the right-of-way in a US district court within two years after notifying a holder of objections or the right-of-way shall be deemed to be valid. Permits a holder to bring an action to quiet title with respect to such a right-of-way within the later of: (1) 12 years from the date of notice of objection from the Secretary. Or (2) the termination of the limitations period applicable under the Federal judicial code. Prohibits the Secretary from closing any right-of-way in use before October 21, 1976: (1) until one year after providing notice to the appropriate State or subdivision. Or (2) if closure would leave any adjoining non-Federal lands without an established public or private access.
Motor Vehicle Owners Right to Repair Act of 2010 - Requires the manufacturer of a motor vehicle sold, leased, or otherwise introduced into commerce in the United States to provide to the owner of the motor vehicle and the service provider of the motor vehicle, using reasonable business means and on a non-discriminatory basis, all information and tools needed to diagnose, service, maintain, or repair the motor vehicle. Provides for enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Permits civil actions by: (1) states on behalf of the state's residents. And (2) consumers and service providers. Provides for the protection of trade secrets, except that no information may be withheld by a manufacturer on the ground that it is a trade secret if that information is provided to authorized dealers or service providers.
Iran Human Rights Act of 2007 - Amends the Iran Freedom Support Act to direct the President to appoint a special envoy for human rights in Iran within the Department of State to coordinate efforts to improve respect for the fundamental human rights of the people of Iran and work with organizations committed to promoting democracy in Iran. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) there is a direct relationship between the state of freedom and democracy within Iran and the efforts of the Iranian regime to acquire nuclear weapons and the long-term success of the global war on terror. (2) it is essential that the issue of human rights violations in Iran should remain a top US foreign policy priority independent of efforts to address the nuclear threat in Iran. (3) the US government should explore the possibility of a regional human rights dialogue with Iran. (4) the United Nations has a significant role to play in improving human rights in Iran. And (5) the commitment to human rights and democracy of an Iranian national who has applied for a US entry visa should be considered when determining visa eligibility.
Provides the process for certification of the facts of a contempt ruling to a district judge for execution of punishment or sanctions. Amends the Federal criminal code to provide magistrate judge authority in cases involving petty offenses and petty cases involving juveniles.
Super-Efficient Appliance Incentives and Market Transformation Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify the applicable amount of the tax credit for energy efficient appliances produced after 2007.
Amends the Food Security Act of 1985 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to deny certain agricultural commodity payments for not less than five years, or permanently, to a person or legal entity that has knowingly engaged in, or aided in the creation of a fraudulent document, or failed to disclose material information relevant to the administration of such benefits. Requires that a person or legal entity that received benefits while ineligible due to excess income repay such amounts fully. Directs the Secretary to request the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to verify the income-related eligibility of a benefit applicant, and deny benefits to a person or entity determined to be ineligible. Authorizes Farm Service Agency reconsideration of a denial.
Presidential Trade Transparency Act of 2017 This bill requires the President to submit to Congress a report containing a full and complete statement of the President's income earned, assets held, and liabilities owed in the preceding 12 months that are associated with a foreign country: with which the United States is negotiating a trade or investment agreement, that is subject to a presidential trade enforcement action determination modifying the tariff treatment of imported articles from such country, or that is designated as eligible for preferential trade treatment under a trade preference program. If the President fails to report such information to Congress: any instrument providing for the modification of such tariff treatment shall have no force or effect, and the bill implementing such a trade or investment agreement shall not be eligible for trade authorities procedures under the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015.
Montgomery GI Bill Revitalization Act of 2003 - Amends Federal basic educational assistance provisions to authorize enhanced educational assistance to a member of the armed forces who, after September 30, 2003: (1) first enters on active duty, (2) reenlists or continues to serve on active duty. (3) serves a continuous period of active duty of four years. Or (4) serves and is discharged or released for a service-connected disability, at the convenience of the Government , or due to a reduction in force. Limits to 36 months the period for such enhanced assistance. Requires the payment of educational expenses under such program. Provides: (1) a monthly stipend for approved programs of education. And (2) tutorial assistance. Repeals, with respect to such assistance: (1) a required monthly reduction in pay for individuals who do not elect to participate in such assistance program. (2) a provision authorizing individuals to elect not to receive such assistance. (3) the requirement that participants complete the requirements of a high school diploma or equivalency certificate prior to the end of their initial obligated period of service in order to be eligible to receive such assistance. And (4) provisions limiting an individual's opportunity to withdraw an election not to enroll in such assistance program.
Video Competition and Consumer Choice Act of 1998 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to make the authority of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to regulate cable television service rates inapplicable to services provided after March 31, 1999, by a cable system unless the franchising authority for such system, after notice and opportunity for a public hearing, certifies to the FCC that the cable operator of such system is not providing subscribers an acceptable range of programming choices to the extent technically feasible and economically reasonable. Outlines factors to be considered for such certification. Authorizes FCC review of such certifications. Makes such certifications effective for one year, unless earlier withdrawn or rescinded. Replaces references to satellite cable programming and satellite broadcast programming with multichannel video programming (MVP). Repeals a deadline for FCC regulations concerning the development of competition and diversity in MVP distribution. Outlines minimum requirements for such regulations, including prohibited actions by an MVP vendor with respect to the sale or delivery of such programming among cable systems, cable operators, and other MVP distributors. Prohibits entering into contracts to grant exclusive distribution rights to any person with respect to MVP after the date of enactment of this Act, except for certain exclusivity contracts granted by the FCC in the public interest. Prohibits any such contract already entered into before such date of enactment to continue after 120 days after such date. Defines MVP as video programming which is transmitted by any means and which is primarily intended for the direct receipt by MVP distributors for retransmission to their subscribers. Requires the revision of MVP regulations as necessitated by this Act within 120 days after enactment. Requires each cable operator of a cable system to make available for sale to its subscribers a separately packaged lifeline service tier consisting exclusively of: (1) FCC-required local commercial television and noncommercial educational television programming. (2) any public, educational, and governmental access programming required by the cable system franchise. And (3) any signal of a local television broadcast station provided by the cable operator to any subscriber . Prohibits a cable operator from adding additional video programming signals or services to the lifeline tier. Directs the FCC to prescribe regulations for lifeline tier rates.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on September 9, 2016. Amateur Radio Parity Act of 2016 This bill directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to amend station antenna structure regulations to prohibit a private land use restriction from applying to amateur radio stations if the restriction: precludes communications in an amateur radio service, fails to permit a licensee of amateur radio service to install and maintain an effective outdoor antenna on property under its exclusive use or control, or is not the minimum practicable restriction to accomplish the lawful purposes of a community association seeking to enforce the restriction. Before installing an outdoor antenna, however, an amateur radio licensee must obtain a community association's prior approval. A community association may: (1) prohibit installations on common property not under the exclusive control of the licensee, and (2) establish installation rules for amateur radio antennas and support structures.
Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out major medical facility projects (projects) in FY2010 in: (1) Livermore, California, (2) Walla Walla, Washington. And (3) Louisville, Kentucky. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out projects in FY2010, as previously authorized, for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers in Denver, Colorado, and Bay Pines, Florida. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out specified major medical facility leases (leases) in Alabama, California, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, and Texas. Authorizes appropriations for projects and leases authorized under this Act.
Women's Autoimmune Diseases Research and Prevention Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the Office on Women's Health in the Department of Health and Human Services to expand, intensify, and coordinate research and related activities of the Department with respect to autoimmune diseases in women. Requires such efforts to examine: (1) disease prevalence in women, (2) the etiology and causes of such diseases, (3) epidemiology and gender and ethnic differences, (4) diagnostic approaches, (5) new treatments, and (6) prevention and education programs.
Sports Agent Responsibility and Trust Act - Prohibits an athlete agent from: (1) recruiting or soliciting a student athlete to enter into an agency contract by giving false or misleading information, making a false promise or representation, or providing anything of value to the athlete or anyone associated with the athlete before entering into such contract, including any consideration in the form of a loan, or acting as guarantor or co-guarantor for any debt. (2) entering into an agency contract with a student athlete without providing the required disclosure document. Or (3) predating or postdating an agency contract. Requires an athlete agent to provide to the athlete a separate disclosure document that includes notice that if the athlete agrees orally or in writing to be represented by an agent, he or she may lose eligibility to compete as a student athlete. Requires both the student athlete and the agent, within 72 hours or before the athlete's next athletic event, whichever occurs first, to notify the athletic director of the athlete's educational institution that the athlete has entered into an agency contract. Treats a violation of this Act as an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Authorizes civil actions by State attorneys general and educational institutions. Expresses the sense of Congress that States should enact the Uniform Athlete Agents Act of 2000 drafted by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws.
Veterans' Compensation Rate Amendments of 2001 - Increases, as of December 1, 2001, the rates of veterans' disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and for children.
Communities Committed to College Tax Credit Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for 50 of any contribution to a tax-exempt scholarship funding trust established to provide scholarships for individuals with demonstrated financial need to attend institutions of higher education.
Master Teacher Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of Education to conduct a demonstration project to increase teacher salaries and employee benefits for teachers who contract with local educational agencies (LEAs) to serve as master teachers. Gives priority to LEAs in school districts that have schools with a high proportion of economically disadvantaged students.
Strengthening Homeland Security, Intelligence, and Essential Law Enforcement Departments Act of 2011 or SHIELD Act of 2011 - Requires, in the event that the US public debt limit is reached, priority payment of the pay and allowances of: (1) members of the Armed Forces, including reserves, who perform active service. And (2) critical law enforcement officers employed by federal agencies. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury, during a period of lapsed appropriations for the Armed Forces or federal agencies employing critical law enforcement officers, to make available necessary amounts to continue such pay and allowances.
Military Sexual Assault Victims Empowerment Act or the Military SAVE Act This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a three-year pilot program of hospital care and medical services for eligible veterans at non-VA health care providers to treat injuries or illnesses resulting from sexual assault, battery, or harassment while the veteran was on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training. Program participation shall not affect a veteran's ability to receive VA health care. An eligible veteran may elect to participate in the program and choose his or her provider as long as the provider meets VA requirements. The program shall be carried out at not more than five sites that meet criteria of city size and rates of sexual assault and rape. At least one site shall be a rural site and not more than 75 veterans may participate at any one site. The bill sets forth payment provisions for current and new non-VA providers.
Update, Promote, and Develop America's Transportation Essentials Act of 2013 - Expresses the sense of Congress that by 2024,nbsp. The gas tax should be repealed and replaced with a more sustainable, stable funding source. Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the excise tax on motor fuels, to increase the rate of tax on: (1) gasoline other than aviation gasoline to 33.3 cents per gallon after 2015 and before 2025, (2) diesel fuel or kerosene to 39.3 cents per gallon after 2015 and before 2025, and (3) diesel-water fuel emulsion. Delays the termination of such increased rates from the end of FY2016 to December 31, 2024. Imposes a floor stocks tax onnbsp, rate increases for gasoline, diesel fuel, andnbsp. Kerosene , subject to specified exemptions for exempt uses and low-volume producers.
Joseph Moakley Memorial Fire Safe Cigarette Act of 2002 - Directs the Consumer Product Safety Commission to prescribe fire safety standards for cigarettes to reduce the risk of ignition presented by cigarettes . Sets forth general test requirements. Denies the Commission any jurisdiction over tobacco or tobacco products except as provided in this Act.
Protecting Children from Sexual Exploitation Act of 2005 - Amends federal criminal code provisions regarding child sexual exploitation to apply recordkeeping requirements applicable to visual depictions of sexually explicit conduct to pictures, digital images, and digitally- or computer-manipulated images of actual human beings. Prohibits any person to whom these provisions apply from refusing to permit the Attorney General to conduct an inspection of records at that person's business premises at a reasonable time. Establishes recordkeeping requirements for simulated sexual conduct.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an inflation adjustment based upon the gross domestic product deflator to the adjusted basis of certain assets held by a taxpayer for more than three years for purposes of determining gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of such assets. Sets forth rules for applying such inflation adjustment to short sales, regulated investment companies and real estate investment trusts, partnerships and other pass-thru entities, and dispositions of assets between related persons.
Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act of 2009 - Requires, beginning with FY2011, a two-fiscal-year new discretionary budget authority for the following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): (1) Medical Services, (2) Medical Support and Compliance. And (3) Medical Facilities. Requires the Comptroller General to: (1) conduct a study on the adequacy and accuracy of VA baseline model projections for health care expenditures. And (2) report during 2011-2013 to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the congressional veterans, appropriations, and budget committees on the sufficiency of budget requests for VA health expenditures in relation to the baseline model projections.
State Veterans Home Nurse Recruitment Act of 2004 - Amends Federal veterans' benefits provisions to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make payments to States for assisting State veterans' homes in the hiring and retention of nurses and the reduction of nursing shortages at such homes. Makes eligible for such assistance State homes that: (1) currently receive per diem payments from the Secretary for the care of veterans. And (2) have in effect an employee incentive scholarship or other program designed to promote the hiring and retention of nursing staff and reduce nursing shortages. Limits such assistance to no more than 50 percent of the fiscal year costs of such a program. Requires the assistance program to be implemented as expeditiously as possible, so that payments are made to eligible States commencing no later than January 1, 2005.
This bill modifies the boundary of the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area in Idaho to: (1) include specified Bureau of Land Management (BLM) administered land and certain Bureau of Reclamation administered land, and (2) exclude specified lands identified as the Segment 8 Revised Proposed Route and as the Segment 9 Revised Proposed Route. The Department of the Interior shall issue to Gateway West a right-of-way for such proposed routes, which is to be used for the construction and maintenance of transmission lines and for access roads and activities related to fire prevention and suppression, subject to construction mitigation and conservation requirements. Interior shall: (1) administer the BLM and Reclamation administered lands as part of the National Landscape Conservation System, and (2) continue to administer the proposed route lands as lands that are not included in the conservation area. The bill transfers from Reclamation to the BLM administrative jurisdiction over the Reclamation administered lands. Interior shall amend the management plan for the conservation area in order to address the long-term management of the BLM and Reclamation administered lands, including for livestock grazing, hunting, fishing, and motorized access. Specified federal land in the Cotterel Wind Power Project area may not be used for producing electricity from wind. Interior shall establish a Bureau of Land Management Foundation and grant it the same authorities granted to the National Park Foundation for National Park Service activities, for the purpose of providing opportunities for the BLM to address specific challenges that may be better addressed with the support of a foundation.
Care Coordination for Older Americans Act of 2012 - Amends the Older Americans Act of 1965 to make it a duty and function of the Administration on Aging (AOA) in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide technical assistance to, and share best practices with, states, area agencies on aging, Aging and Disability Resource Centers, and service providers to carry out outreach and coordinate activities with health care entities in order to assure better care coordination for individuals with multiple chronic illnesses. Requires AOA also to coordinate activities with other federal agencies working to improve care coordination and developing new models and best practices. Requires the designated state agency to promote the development and implementation of a state system to: (1) address the care coordination needs of older individuals with multiple chronic illnesses. And (2) work with acute care providers, area agencies on aging, service providers, and federal agencies to ensure that the system uses best practices. Requires area and state plans to provide assurances that the area agencies on aging will facilitate the area-wide development and implementation of an area-wide system to address the care coordination needs of older individuals with multiple chronic illnesses.
Temporary IRA Distribution Suspension Act of 2008 - Suspends for calendar 2008 and 2009 the beginning date for required distributions from certain individual retirement (IRA) plans.
Healthy Maternity and Obstetric Medicine Act or the Healthy MOM Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act and Internal Revenue Code to require health insurers, health insurance exchanges, and group health plans to offer a special enrollment period to pregnant women beginning when the pregnancy is reported to the issuer, exchange, or plan. The Office of Personnel Management must ensure that eligible pregnant women are allowed to enroll in federal employee health benefit plans outside of the open enrollment period.
Alaska Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale Act This bill requires the Department of the Interior to conduct oil and gas lease sales in the Cook Inlet Planning Area, and in the portion of the Beaufort Planning Area located within three nautical miles of the seaward boundary of Alaska. Oil and gas leases under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act shall have an initial 20-year lease period if they are located in the portion of the Beaufort Planning Area or Chukchi Planning Area beyond three nautical miles of the seaward boundary of the State of Alaska. The bill establishes, for FY2016-FY2026, a scheme for revenue allocation between the Treasury and the state of Alaska for specified purposes, including workforce development relating to oil and gas infrastructure and, for FY2027 and beyond, certain related activities of coastal political subdivisions. Interior must also include in any leasing program at least three lease sales in each of the Beaufort Planning Area and the Chukchi Planning Area. The North Slope Science Initiative under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 shall now include the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas. Interior must enter into cooperative agreements with the Northwest Arctic Borough and the NANA Regional Corporation to coordinate efforts, share resources, and fund projects.
Foster Children Opportunity Act - Amends part E of title IV of the Social Security Act to require state plans for foster care and adoption assistance to have procedures to assist alien children in the child welfare system achieve special immigrant juvenile status and lawful permanent resident status before exiting foster care. Requires case plans to include documentation of the steps the state child welfare agency is taking in assisting children obtain lawful immigrant status before exiting foster care. Requires a permanency hearing to determine whether a petition for special immigrant juvenile status or lawful permanent resident status has been filed on behalf of an alien foster child and, if it has not been filed, whether it is in the child's best interest to have such a petition filed or to have immigration counsel appointed. Authorizes the use of court improvement program grant funds to educate and train child welfare and court staff to assist alien children in achieving special immigrant juvenile status, lawful permanent resident status, and other forms of relief under immigration law. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), on the request of a child welfare agency, to provide technical assistance in carrying out this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to and contract with qualified non-profit or other community-based service providers to perform the assistance. Amends the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to make an exception to the five-year limited eligibility of qualified aliens for federal means-tested public benefits for individuals who have obtained special immigrant juvenile status. Makes a similar exception for such individuals with respect to the limited eligibility of qualified aliens for certain Federal programs.
Transparency in Energy Production Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of the Interior to publicly disclose the amounts of fossil fuel production, including amounts of gas released , and renewable energy production on public lands. The data shall present amounts of greenhouse gas emissions using the 20- and 100-year Global Warming Potential-weighted emission values and, for renewable energy production, compare fossil fuel-generated emissions resulting from the same amount of energy. As determined necessary to implement this bill, Interior shall promulgate regulations regarding accurate measurement and reporting of methane emissions.
Directs the National Marine Fisheries Service and the Oakdale and South San Joaquin Irrigation Districts in California to jointly develop and conduct a pilot program to remove non-native striped bass, smallmouth bass, largemouth bass, black bass, and other non-native predator fish from the Stanislaus River. Requires the program to: (1) be scientifically based. (2) include methods to quantify the number and size of predator fish removed each year, the impact of such removal on the overall abundance of predator fish, and the impact of such removal on the populations of certain juvenile anadromous fish found in the Stanislaus River. And (3) be implemented for seven consecutive years. Requires the districts to be responsible for the cost of such program. Authorizes the Service to accept and use contributions of funds from the districts to carry out activities under the program. Directs: (1) the Service to post, each month, on its Internet website a tabular summary of the raw data collected under the program in the preceding month. And (2) the Service and the districts, by June 30 of the year following the completion of the program, to jointly submit for peer review a report that discusses program's findings and conclusions, synthesizes the data collected, and makes recommendations for further study and action. Voids and preempts any California legal restriction imposed on, or the permitting of, the catch, take, or harvest of any non-native or introduced aquatic or terrestrial species that preys upon specified stocks of anadromous fish and that occupies or is found in the Stanislaus River.
Reinstatement of Enrollment for Medicaid Eligibility of Disadvantaged Youth (REMEDY) Act - Amends titles XIX (Medicaid) and XXI (SCHIP) of the Social Security Act to require a state plan to provide for the reinstatement to enrollment for medical assistance and child health assistance upon release from a public institution of an individual youth who was enrolled for such assistance immediately before becoming an inmate of such institution.
Internet Freedom Preservation Act - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to establish certain Internet neutrality duties for broadband service providers (providers), including not interfering with, or discriminating against, the ability of any person to use broadband service in a lawful manner. Allows providers to engage in activities in furtherance of certain management and business-related practices, such as protecting network security and offering consumer protection services such as parental controls. Prohibits a provider from requiring a subscriber, as a condition on the purchase of broadband service, to purchase any cable service, telecommunications service, or IP-enabled voice service. Requires a report from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to specified congressional committees on provider delivery of broadband content, applications, and services.
Methane Hydrate Research and Development Amendments Act of 2015 This bill amends the Methane Hydrate Research and Development Act of 2000 to revise and reauthorize the Department of Energy's (DOE) program of methane hydrate research and development. In carrying out the program, DOE may award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, institutions that: (1) drill a test well and perform a long-term hydrate production test on land in the US Arctic region within 4 years, (2) drill a test well and perform a long-term hydrate production test in a marine environment within 10 years, or (3) drill a full-scale production test well at a location to be determined by DOE. DOE must conduct a long-term environmental monitoring program to study the effects of production from methane hydrate reservoirs.
Guaranteed Paid Vacation Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act to require specified employers who employ at least 15 employees at any time during a calendar year to provide each eligible employee at least 10 days of paid vacation time during each 12-month period, to be used on consecutive or nonconsecutive days. An employee is eligible for paid vacation time only if he or she has been employed by the employer for at least one year and has worked at least 1,250 hours for that employer during the previous year. The employee must give the employer at least 15 days' prior notice of his or her intent to take paid vacation, including the dates it will begin and end. The Department of Labor shall conduct a public awareness campaign, through the Internet and other media, to inform the public of an eligible employee's entitlement to paid vacation time under the Act.
Citizenship Promotion Act of 1996 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to establish within the Immigration and Naturalization Service the United States Citizenship Promotion Agency. Transfers to the Agency naturalization and related functions currently carried out by the Attorney General and the Service. Establishes the National Advisory Board on Citizenship. Directs the Agency to carry out naturalization outreach activities. Establishes in the Treasury the Naturalization Examinations Fee Account.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement and Income Security Act (ERISA), and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to treat certain small employer benefit arrangements (SEBAs) as employers for the purpose of providing qualified retirement and accident and health plans or group-term life insurance. Defines a SEBA as a member owned, democratically controlled cooperative organization that: (1) has at least 21 shareholders of whom 90 percent are in the same or similar line of business. (2) sponsors an accident and health plan for shareholder-members and any of their employees. (3) sponsors a qualified retirement plan meeting specified requirements and available to shareholder-members and their employees, (4) provides employee benefits pursuant to a written agreement. And (5) requires all benefit eligible employees of a shareholder-member to participate according to the same statutory eligibility criteria normally accorded them. Treats the shareholder-members of a SEBA as employers for purposes of administering and allocating items of income, credits, deductions, or exclusions associated with the provision of employee benefits. Prohibits treatment as a SEBA of any organization or related entity that is owned, in whole or in part, or managed or controlled in whole or in part, by any management agreement or certificates of indebtedness, directly or indirectly, or by: (1) any agents, brokers or providers of a health, life, or disability insurer, (2) a retirement plan service provider, (3) claim administrators. Or (4) investment advisors. Requires any group health plan established or maintained by a SEBA to be fully insured .
English Language Unity Act of 2015 Establishes English as the official language of the United States. Requiresnbsp. Naturalization ceremonies and official functions of the US government, subject to exceptions, tonbsp. Be conducted in English. Declares that all citizens should be able to read and understand generally the English language text of US laws. Allows a person injured by a violation of this Act to obtain relief, including a declaratory judgment, in a civil action. Declares that English language requirements and workplace policies, whether in the public or private sector,nbsp. Shall be presumptively consistent with US laws. Requires any ambiguity innbsp, US lawsnbsp. To be resolved in accordance with the rights retained by the people and the powers reserved to states under the Bill of Rights. Directs the Department of Homeland Security to issue a proposed rule for uniform testing of the English language ability of candidates for naturalization based upon the principles that: (1) all citizens should be able to read and understand generally the English language text of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the laws of the United States. And (2) any exceptions to this standard should be limited to extraordinary circumstances, such as asylum.
Jobs Now Act of 2017 This bill amends the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act to direct the Department of Labor to carry out a two-year pilot program to award competitive grants to general local government units or community-based organizations to retain, employ, or train employees who provide a local government unit with a public service. The bill prescribes required and authorized uses of grant fund and priorities for awarding and using grant funds, including: encouraging grantees to use funds to retain, employ, or train veterans, individuals with disabilities, individuals who receive unemployment benefits, or dislocated workers. And giving priority in awarding grants to local government units and their community-based organizations with high unemployment, foreclosure, and poverty rates.
Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline Improvement Act of 2011 - Amends the Alaska Natural Gas Pipeline Act of 2004 to include in the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation Project any pipeline segment that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) finds could feasibly be incorporated into and serve as an integrated segment of that system, regardless of whether it: (1) is proposed and constructed before construction of the entire system, or (2) initially transports natural gas solely for delivery to customers within Alaska.
Intercity Passenger Rail Trust Fund Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish in the Treasury the Intercity Passenger Rail Trust Fund to finance qualified expenses of: (1) the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and (2) non-Amtrak States.
Defense of Freedom Education Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to make competitive grants to eligible institutions of higher education, foundations, and other nonprofit institutions for various activities supporting academic programs focused on the American founding, defense of freedom, Western civilization, and free institutions . Allows use of grants for: (1) research, planning, and coordination. (2) design and implementation of courses, and development and support of centers, (3) research and publication costs of course materials, (4) associated general expenses. (5) salaries and expenses of faculty teaching in undergraduate and graduate focused programs. (6) support of graduate and postgraduate fellowships for scholars in fields related to focused programs. And (7) development of teacher education programs that stress content mastery in history or government and civic education preparation, including the history and philosophy of free institutions and the study of Western civilization.
This bill amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to direct the Department of Energy (DOE), acting through the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, to act as the lead federal agency for coordinating and disseminating information on existing federal programs and assistance that may be used to help initiate, develop, and finance energy efficiency, renewable energy, and energy retrofitting projects for schools. DOE must: carry out a review of existing programs and financing mechanisms available in or from appropriate federal agencies with jurisdiction over energy financing and facilitation that are currently used or may be used for such purposes. Establish a federal cross-departmental collaborative coordination, education, and outreach effort to streamline communication and promote available federal opportunities and assistance for such projects that enables states, local educational agencies, and schools to use existing federal opportunities more effectively and to form partnerships with appropriate entities to support project initiation. Provide technical assistance for states, local educational agencies, and schools to help develop and finance projects that meet specified requirements. Develop and maintain a single online resource website with contact information for relevant technical assistance and support staff in the Office for states, local educational agencies, and schools to effectively access and use federal opportunities and assistance to develop such projects. And establish a process for recognition of schools that have successfully implemented such projects and are willing to serve as resources for other local educational agencies and schools to assist initiation of similar efforts.
Small Company Capital Formation Act of 2011 - Amends the Securities Act of 1933 to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to exempt from its regulation a class of securities for which the aggregate offering amount of all securities offered and sold within the prior 12-month period in reliance on such exemption is between $5 million and $50 million, subject to specified terms and conditions. Limits such an exemption to equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities convertible or exchangeable to equity interests, including any guarantees of such securities. Authorizes the SEC to: (1) require an issuer of such exempted class of securities to make periodic disclosures available to investors regarding the issuer, its business operations, its financial condition, and its use of investor funds. And (2) provide for the suspension and termination of such a requirement with respect to that issuer. Requires the SEC to: (1) review and increase biennially such offering amount limitation, as appropriate. And (2) report to certain congressional committees on its reasons for not increasing the amount if it determines not to do so. Treats as a covered security with respect to a transaction exempt from registration requirements pursuant to a rule or regulation adopted under this Act any such security offered or sold: (1) on a national securities exchange, or (2) to a qualified purchaser. Directs the Comptroller General to study the impact of state laws regulating securities offerings on offerings made under Regulation A .
Animal Drug Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to permit the extra-label use of drugs in animals if an approval of an application is in effect with respect to a particular use or intended use of a new animal drug and such use is upon the order of a licensed veterinarian within the context of a veterinarian-client-patient relationship and is in compliance with regulations that establish the conditions for such use. Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services, if the Secretary finds that there is a reasonable probability that such use may present a risk to the public health, to establish a safe level for a residue of an animal drug when used for such different use and require the development of a practical, analytical method for the detection of residues of the drug above the safe level established. Prohibits such use if it results in residues exceeding the safe level.
Broadband Internet Regulatory Relief Act of 1999 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to mandate that an incumbent local exchange carrier shall not be subject to Federal requirements concerning: (1) facilities and equipment used exclusively to provide advanced communications service. And (2) the provision of such service in any State in which 70 percent of such carrier's loops in its service territory are DSL-capable . Provides that the prices, terms, and conditions of any advanced service by such a carrier shall not be subject to Federal regulation if the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) determines that advanced service is being offered by an unaffiliated provider in competition with such carrier within a geographic area served by a central office. States that prices, terms, and conditions offered by a carrier or an affiliate shall not be subject to FCC regulation in an area in which such carrier was not the carrier on February 8, 1996. Requires carriers not subject to regulation to file with the FCC a schedule of charges and practices. Provides that the duty not to prohibit or impose unreasonable or discriminatory conditions on the resale of telecommunications services shall not apply to such a carrier with respect to its provision of advanced service.
Amends the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (LDA) to revise the definition of lobbying activities to include paid communications campaigns to influence the general public to lobby Congress. Redefines lobbying firm to include a person or entity retained by one or more clients to engage in paid communications campaigns to influence the general public to lobby Congress, and receives income of, or spends or agrees to spend, an aggregate of $100,000 or more for such efforts in any quarterly period. Defines paid communications campaigns to influence the general public to lobby Congress as efforts by a lobbying firm, on behalf of a client, to influence the general public or its segments to contact one or more covered legislative or executive branch officials to urge them to take specific action regarding a specific matter. Excludes from the meaning of such communications: (1) any made to the members of the client. Or (2) direct mail communications to the general public or its segments made primarily to recruit members to join an organization. Sets forth LDA registration and reporting requirements of such lobbying firms.
Berta Caceres Human Rights in Honduras Act This bill prohibits funds from being made available to Honduras for the police or military , and directs the Department of the Treasury to instruct US representatives at multilateral development banks to vote against any loans for the police or military of Honduras, until the Department of States certifies that the government of Honduras has: prosecuted members of the military and police for human rights violations and ensured that such violations have ceased. Established the rule of law and guaranteed a judicial system capable of bringing to justice members of the police and military who have committed human rights abuses. Established that it protects the rights of trade unionists, journalists, human rights defenders, government critics, and civil society activists to operate without interference, withdrawn the military from domestic policing. And brought to trial and obtained verdicts against those who ordered and carried out the attack on Felix Molina and the killings of Berta Caceres, Joel Palacios Lino, Elvis Armando Garcia, and over 100 small-farmer activists in the Aguan Valley.
Corporate Welfare Reduction and Job Preservation Act of 2006 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require a 50 reduction in tax benefits for certain large profitable corporations that reduce their employee workforce by 15 or more. Defines large profitable corporation as a corporation or partnership that is not defined as a small business concern under the Small Business Act and which has a taxable income that exceeds net operating losses during a specified five-year period. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Export-Import Act of 1945 to require large profitable corporations that reduce their employee workforce by 15 or more to immediately repay loans and forfeit insurance benefits and credit lines provided by such Acts.
End Excessive Oil Speculation Now Act of 2011 - Directs the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to establish speculative position limits: (1) in any registered trading entity on or through which crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, or heating oil futures or swaps are traded that are equal to the position accountability levels or position limits established by the New York Mercantile Exchange (Exchange). And (2) that are equal to the position accountability levels or position limits established by such Exchange upon the aggregate number or amount of positions in contracts based upon the same underlying commodity that may be held by any person for each month across specified contracts, transactions, and swap contracts. Directs the Chairman to: (1) establish margin requirements of 12 for speculative swaps and futures trading in crude oil, gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, and heating oil. (2) require each bank holding company, investment bank, hedge fund, or swaps dealer trading energy futures or swaps for its own benefit, or on behalf of, or as counterparty to, an index fund, exchange traded fund, or other noncommercial participant, to register with the CFTC as a noncommercial participant and be subject to position limits and margin requirements under this Act. Exempts bona-fide hedge trading from such position limits and margin requirements. Expresses the sense of Congress that, if finalized, the proposed position limits for derivatives that the CFTC included in a specified notice of proposed rulemaking do not fulfill the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to diminish, eliminate, or prevent excessive speculation.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Pharmacotherapy Research Title II: Patent Protections for Pharmacotherapies Title III: Encouraging Private Sector Development of Pharmacotherapies New Medications to Treat Addiction Act of 1998 - Title I: Pharmacotherapy Research - Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize appropriations as necessary to carry out provisions relating to development of medications to treat drug addiction, allowing specified sums of those amounts to be appropriated from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund. Title II: Patent Protections for Pharmacotherapies - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to add references to drugs for the treatment of addiction to illegal drugs to provisions relating to drugs for rare diseases or conditions, allowing exclusive approval, certification, or licensure, subject to exception. Requires that the sponsor of such a treatment drug be encouraged to design open protocols. Title III: Encouraging Private Sector Development of Pharmacotherapies - Mandates establishment of criteria for an acceptable drug for the treatment of addiction to cocaine and an acceptable drug for the treatment of addiction to heroin. Allows the patent owner of a drug to treat cocaine or heroin addiction to apply to the Secretary of Health and Human Services to sell the patent rights to, or make an exclusive licensing agreement with, the Secretary. Sets the purchase amount at $100 million for the cocaine treatment drug and $50 million for the heroin treatment drug. Directs the Secretary, after the sale or licensing, to develop a manufacturing and distribution plan. Authorizes appropriations to carry out this title.
Alternative Fueled Vehicles Competitiveness and Energy Security Act of 2013 - Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to expand the list of technology categories that are eligible for loan guarantees by including a category for infrastructure for provision and distribution of alternative fuels. Amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to: (1) redefine advanced technology vehicle, for purposes of the advanced technology vehicles manufacturing incentive program, to include certain vehicles that will reduce consumption of conventional motor fuel by 25 or more compared to existing surface transportation technologies that perform a similar function. (2) repeal the limit on the amount of appropriations that may be used for direct loans under such program. And (3) extend funding through FY2018 for such program. Directs the Secretary to: (1) assess the effectiveness of alternative fuel and alternative fueled vehicles in reducing oil imports. (2) provide technical assistance for the deployment of alternative fuel and alternative fueled vehicles and infrastructure. And (3) award grants to provide training and education for vocational workforce development for the manufacture and maintenance of alternative fueled vehicles and the manufacture, installation, support, and inspection of alternative fuel recharging, refueling, and distribution infrastructure. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to: (1) redefine quot, idle reduction technologyquot. To include a technology that uses an alternative fuel to reduce consumption of conventional fuel and environmental emissions. And (2) extend appropriations through FY2018 to reduce extended idling from heavy-duty vehicles and locomotives. Requires the Secretary to identify barriers and remedies in electric and natural gas and oil pipeline transmission and distribution systems to the distribution of alternative fuels and the deployment of alternative fuel recharging and refueling capability at economically competitive costs for consumers. Requires the Secretary to establish an interagency coordination council for the development and procurement of alternative fueled vehicles by federal agencies. Requires electricity and natural gas consumed by federal agencies to fuel alternative fueled vehicles to be considered an alternative fuel and accounted for under federal fleet management reporting requirements, rather than under federal building management reporting requirements. Requires the Secretary to assess federal government fleets. Extends states' authority to allow inherently low-emission and energy-efficient vehicles to use high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes.
Declaration of Official Language Act of 1997 - Declares English to be the official language of the US Government. States that English is the preferred language of communication among US citizens. Requires the US Government to promote and support the use of English for communications among US citizens. Requires communications by officers and employees of the US Government with US citizens to be in English. Directs the Immigration and Naturalization Service to: (1) enforce the established English language proficiency standard for all applicants for US citizenship. And (2) conduct all naturalization ceremonies entirely in English. Allows anyone injured by a violation of such provisions to obtain appropriate relief in a civil action. Authorizes the court in any such action to allow a prevailing party, other than the US Government, a reasonable attorney's fee as part of costs. Repeals the Bilingual Education Act . Amends the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to repeal bilingual voting requirements.
Pathways to Self-Sufficiency Act of 2002 - Amends part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act to give States that receive a TANF grant the option to: (1) use the grant to establish a program, including an undergraduate post-secondary or vocational education program, under which an eligible participant may be provided certain support services although the State may not use Federal TANF grant funds to pay the participant's tuition. And (2) credit months of program participation for disregard in calculation of the five year TANF assistance limitation.
Military Sexual Assault Crimes Revision Act of 2004 - Amends the Uniform Code of Military Justice to define as the crime of aggravated sexual abuse engaging in a sexual act: (1) through the use of force. (2) by threatening or placing a person in fear that any person will be subjected to death, grievous bodily harm, or kidnapping, (3) by rendering another person unconscious. (4) by administering to another person an impairing drug or intoxicant. Or (5) with a person under 12 years of age whether or not the accused knew the person's age. Defines as the crime of sexual abuse engaging in a sexual act: (1) by threatening or placing a person in fear. (2) with a person who is incapable of either appraising the nature of the conduct or physically incapable of declining. Or (3) with a person who is at least 12 but under 16 who is not the spouse of the accused whether or not the accused knew the person's age. Establishes as an affirmative defense the accused's reasonable belief that the person was at least 16. Defines sexual abuse of a prisoner as knowingly engaging in a sexual act with a person who is: (1) in official detention or confinement. (2) under the custodial, supervisory, or disciplinary authority of the accused. And (3) is not the accused's spouse. Makes the above crimes punishable by court-martial and sets forth interim maximum punishments for each.
Fair And Immediate Release of Generic Drugs Act or the FAIR Generics Act - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) to revise the definition of first applicant for purposes of the 180-day exclusivity period given to first applicants to file an abbreviated new drug application . Makes applicants for a generic drug eligible for the exclusivity period only if they have not entered into a disqualifying agreement . Expands the definition of first applicant to include an applicant that meets the following criteria: (1) the applicant is not the first generic applicant. (2) either no action for patent infringement was brought, such action was withdrawn or dismissed by a court without a decision that the patent was valid and infringed, or the court decided that the patent was invalid or not infringed. And (3) the applicant does not begin commercial marketing of such drug until 30 days after the first applicant began such commercial marketing. Prohibits a party that enters an agreement to delay seeking approval of its generic drug application or to delay the commercial marketing of a generic drug from seeking approval of its application or beginning commercial marketing before the earlier of: (1) the latest date set forth in the agreement to seek approval or market the drug without regard to any earlier date under the agreement when commercial marketing could begin, or (2) 180 days after another first applicant begins commercial marketing of such drug. Requires notice to the Secretary of the Health and Human Services (HHS) of the details of any agreement under this Act not later than ten business days after execution of the agreement. Declares that the exclusive remedy for an infringement of a patent included within a new drug application shall be an action brought under the FFDCA within the 45-day period prescribed.
Gulf Security and Iran Sanctions Enforcement Act - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to include in each lease issued after enactment of this Act that authorizes oil and gas drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf a provision that requires: (1) the lessee to certify annually to the Secretary that it does not engage in any activity for which sanctions may be imposed under the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. And (2) the Secretary to cancel the lease if the lessee fails to make such a certification or makes a false one. Requires such a lease also to require the lessee to disclose to the Secretary any participation in any energy-related joint venture, investment, or partnership located outside Iran that involves: (1) any person whose property and property interests are blocked pursuant to Executive Orders 13224 or 13382. Or (2) any entity on a specified list relating to Iranian Transactions Regulations. Requires cancellation of any lease whose lessee has failed to make such a disclosure or makes a false disclosure. Allows a national interest waiver of these requirements.
Preventive Medicine and Public Health Training Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to award grants to or enter into contracts with certain eligible entities to provide training to graduate medical residents in preventive medicine specialties. Requires grant funds to be used for: (1) residency programs for preventive medicine or public health. (2) financial assistance to resident physicians who plan to specialize in preventive medicine or public health. (3) preventive medicine or public health program costs, including curriculum development and practicum costs, and (4) the improvement of academic administrative units.
Clear Creek National Recreation Area and Conservation Act of 2012 - Establishes the Clear Creek National Recreation Area in California to promote environmentally responsible high-quality motorized and non-motorized trail based recreation, including off-highway vehicle use, scenic touring, and access for hunting and gem collecting, while protecting landscape resources. Instructs the Secretary to use the 2005 Clear Creek Management Area Travel Management Plan as modified by this Act or by the Secretary to incorporate natural resource protection information unavailable in 2005 as the basis for an interim management plan to govern motorized recreation in the Recreation Area. Requires the Secretary to create a comprehensive management plan for the Recreation Area within two years of enactment of this Act. Requires landowners to be provided with adequate access to inholdings within the Recreation Area. Permits livestock grazing to be allowed to continue in areas in which it is allowed. Designates specified federal lands in Fresno and San Benito Counties, California, to be known as the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness, as wilderness areas and components of the National Wilderness Preservation System. Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to add the Larious Canyon, San Carlos Creek, Cantua Creek, Picacho Creek, and White Creek and its tributaries as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research and Awareness Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to: (1) require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct, support, and expand existing epidemiology research on inflammatory bowel disease in both pediatric and adult populations. (2) authorize the CDC to award grants and enter into cooperative agreements to develop and administer such epidemiology research. And (3) direct the CDC to award grants to increase awareness of inflammatory bowel disease among the general public and health care providers. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Directors of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases should support specified research and training goals for inflammatory bowel diseases.
Tribal Connect Act of 2017 This bill amends the Communications Act of 1934 to expand the Schools and Libraries Universal Service Support (E-rate) program to include support for Indian tribal libraries that are eligible for support under the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA), without regard to whether the libraries are eligible for assistance from state library administrative agencies under the LSTA. The E-rate program provides discounted telecommunications services to certain schools and libraries. The Federal Communications Commission must establish a pilot Tribal Anchor Institution Program to provide E-rate support to tribes for institutions that are not schools or libraries, such as community centers. E-rate support may be provided to institutions designated by tribes if: (1) the tribes do not have existing libraries that are eligible for E-rate support, (2) the institutions are exclusively owned by the tribes. And (3) the institutions intend to deliver publicly available Internet access to students, teachers, librarians, and community members for educational purposes.
Grants a federal charter to the American Military Retirees Association.
Directs the Secretary to develop and begin to implement a comprehensive management plan for the long-term management of the Area. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire for the Area surrounding lands within the District owned by private individuals, local counties, or the State of Arizona. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress: (1) describing the most effective measures for the protection of certain lands north of the District. And (2) five years after the enactment of this Act, and at least every ten years thereafter, on the implementation of this Act.
Water System Adaptation Partnerships Act of 2009 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to make grants to water systems to assist in planning, designing, constructing, implementing, or maintaining any program, strategy, or infrastructure improvement to: (1) conserve water or increase water use efficiency. (2) carry out water metering to measure water efficiency effectiveness of a water efficiency program, (3) preserve or improve water quality. (4) enhance water management by increasing source water preservation and protection, or natural or engineered green infrastructure, in the management, conveyance, or treatment of water, wastewater, or stormwater. (5) increase energy efficiency or the use and generation of renewable energy in the management, conveyance, or treatment of water, wastewater, or stormwater. (6) support the adoption and use of advanced water treatment, water supply management, or water demand management technologies or processes that maintain or increase water supply or improve water quality. (7) complete studies or assessments to project how climate change may impact the future operations and sustainability of the water system. Or (8) carry out any other activity or project to address any ongoing or forecasted climate-related impact on the water quality or quantity of a region of the United States that increases the resiliency of a water system to the impacts of climate change. Sets forth grant application requirements. Requires the Administrator to conduct a competitive process to select and fund applications, giving priority to applications that: (1) are submitted by water systems that are at the greatest and most immediate risk of facing significant climate-related negative impacts, (2) will impact the largest numbers of water users. And (3) will provide the greatest benefit per dollar expended. Limits the federal share to 50 of the cost.
Job Opportunity and Welfare Reduction Act of 1997 - Directs the Attorney General to conduct a temporary pilot program in States participating in the program under part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act. Requires the Attorney General to notify a State of potential employment opportunities for an adult TANF recipient arising from: (1) removal of an unauthorized alien from a work site by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Or (2) the issuance by the Attorney General to an employer of an unauthorized work letter . Provides for a bonus under TANF to reward high-performing States.
Medicare Payment Improvement Act of 2009 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to determine a value index for the physician work component for each Medicare hospital referral area.
Directs the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to: (1) establish a National Academy of Space to prepare qualifying individuals for Government or US corporate space-related service. And (2) appoint a Board of the National Academy of Space whose functions shall include exam and curriculum development, scholarship and placement administration, and selection of State universities as Member Institutes of the Academy. Authorizes appropriations.
Securing Department of Homeland Security Firearms Act of 2017 or the Securing DHS Firearms Act of 2017 This bill makes the Under Secretary for Management of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) responsible for the security of DHS firearms and other sensitive assets. quot, Sensitive assetsquot. Are defined as any asset, regardless of value, that DHS issues to a DHS employee and that the Under Secretary or a component head determines requires special control and accounting. The Under Secretary shall develop and disseminate a directive for achieving adequate security over such assets across DHS, which shall include: (1) descriptions of what equipment is classified as a sensitive asset, (2) requirements for securing such assets, (3) a classification system for all categories of DHS-issued badges and corresponding requirements for safeguarding such assets, and (4) reporting and record keeping requirements for lost assets . The Under Secretary shall update such directive within one year, including by adding a requirement relating to recording in the inventory systems maintained by each DHS component the acceptance or transfer of a sensitive asset. The Under Secretary shall disseminate a revised version of the Personal Property Asset Management Program Manual that includes: requirements for component heads to develop procedures to safeguard firearms and other sensitive assets during on- and off-duty time. Requirements for the issuance of safety locking devices and policies on the use of such assets, requirements for training on safeguarding such assets. Instructions for reporting and recording lost sensitive assets and an enforcement mechanism to ensure that supervisors maintain such records. And a requirement that a file on a lost asset contain the DHS report and the corresponding police report. DHS components must: comply with federal law, executive branch guidance, and DHS policy regarding the management and oversight of securing sensitive assets, review the need for non-law enforcement badges. Require personnel to comply with requirements for safeguarding sensitive assets and reporting on lost assets. And require that lost assets are reported to local law enforcement, the National Crime Information Center, and DHS headquarters and recorded in inventory systems in the time frame established by the security directive. The Inspector General of DHS shall, on an ongoing basis, review implementation of this bill and report to Congress on the progress and effectiveness of the directive for safeguarding firearms and sensitive assets.
Requires the President to designate not less than three closed military installations that are appropriate for siting a refinery for gasoline or other fuel. Designates the Department of Energy as the lead agency for coordinating applicable federal refinery authorizations and related environmental reviews with respect to a designated refinery. Gives the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia exclusive jurisdiction over civil actions relating to federal refinery authorizations.
Dual Incentive Education Act of 2002 - Permits the heads of legislative branch employing offices to make payments to employees of up to $3,000 for reimbursement of tuition and fees for a semester of graduate study. Requires beneficiaries to have been employed full-time for at least 12 consecutive months and to meet the student assistance eligibility requirements of the Higher Education Assistance Act of 1965. Excludes payments for any portion of tuition and fees covered by a scholarship or other type of financial assistance that does not consist of a student loan.
Medicare Certified Registered Nurse First Assistant Direct Reimbursement Act of 2001 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage of surgical first assisting services furnished by certified registered nurse first assistants.
Adoption Promotion Act of 1996 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an individual a tax credit of up to $5,000 for qualified adoption expenses paid or incurred during the taxable year. Provides a limitation based on modified adjusted gross income. Permits unused credit to be carried forward to the succeeding taxable year on a first-in first-out basis, but prohibits carrying forward credit to any taxable year following the fifth taxable year after the taxable year in which the credit arose. Allows distributions from an individual retirement plan to be used without penalty to pay for adoption expenses. Excludes from gross income aggregate amounts of up to $5,000 paid or expenses incurred by the employee for qualified adoption expenses in connection with the adoption of a child if such amounts are received under an employer's adoption assistance program. Provides a limitation based on modified adjusted gross income.
Stop Taking Our Health Privacy (STOHP) Act of 2002 - Declares that modifications made by an August 14, 2002, final rule affecting medical privacy to a Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) section concerning consent for uses or disclosures to carry out treatment, payment, or health care operations shall have no force or effect. Directs that such CFR section shall be construed and applied to permit a health care provider to use or disclose an individual's protected health information without prior consent under specified circumstances, provided that the provider obtains written consent from the individual as soon as practicable. Declares that a CFR section dealing with uses and disclosures for which an authorization is required shall be construed and applied so that an authorization shall be invalid unless it meets specified criteria, including that it describes the specific marketing uses and disclosures authorized. States that the modifications made by the August 14 final rule dealing with permitted disclosures for public health activities shall have no force or effect.
Small Business Health Information Technology Financing Act of 2009 - Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to guarantee up to 90 of the amount of a loan, up to specified loan amounts, to a small business health professional to be used for the acquisition and installation of health information technology for the professional's medical practice. Defines the term health information technology to mean computer hardware, software, and related technology that supports the meaningful electronic health record use requirements of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act and is purchased by an eligible professional to aid in the provision of health care, including electronic medical records, but excludes information technology whose sole use is financial management, maintenance of inventory of basic supplies, or appointment scheduling.
Preventing Unemployment Act of 2010 - Amends the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA), the Internal Revenue Code, and the Unemployment Compensation Amendments of 1992 to prescribe requirements for the treatment and temporary financing of voluntary short-time compensation (STC) programs, under which: (1) an employer reduces the number of hours worked by employees in lieu of temporary layoffs. And (2) such employees are eligible for pro-rata unemployment compensation if their workweeks are reduced by between 10 and an appropriate state-determined percentage. Requires payments to states meeting the requirements of this Act in an amount equal to 100 of the STC paid to individuals. Prohibits such STC payments: (1) for more than 26 weeks. Or (2) for an employee whose employer's workforce during the three months preceding submission of the employer's STC plan has been reduced by temporary layoffs of more than 20, or on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis. Authorizes temporary federal-state agreements for STC programs if a state does not currently provide for STC payments under an existing program. Requires employers under an STC plan to pay the state one-half of the amount of STC paid under the plan. Requires federal payments to states in an amount equal to: (1) one-half of the amount of STC paid to individuals by the state. And (2) any additional related administrative expenses incurred by the state. Requires the Secretary of Labor to award one start-up grant to state agencies: (1) in states that enact STC programs on or after May 1, 2010. And (2) that apply for such grants before FY2013. Specifies assistance and guidance the Secretary shall give states in establishing and implementing STC programs.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise provisions concerning a corporation, its shareholders, and the transferring of certain assets and liabilities.
Gila Bend Indian Reservation Lands Replacement Clarification Act - Amends the Gila Bend Indian Reservation Lands Replacement Act to prohibit class II or III gaming activities on lands located north of latitude 33 degrees, 4 minutes north that the Tohono O'odham Nation was authorized to purchase in Arizona in exchange for granting the federal government all right, title, and interest to the Gila Bend Indian Reservation. Prohibits this gaming restriction from having any effect on any decision as to whether any lands located south of latitude 33 degrees, 4 minutes north and taken into trust pursuant to this Act qualify as lands taken into trust as part of a land claim settlement for purposes of determining whether gaming may be conducted on such lands.
Terrorist Detainees Protection Act of 2009 - Directs the President to ensure that by the end of calendar 2009 no person alleged to be an unlawful enemy combatant is detained at Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Requires a status review by a panel of three military judges of any Guantanamo detainee suspected of being an unlawful enemy combatant. Requires that any person determined, pursuant to such a review, to be an unlawful enemy combatant to be: (1) transferred to a military or civilian detention facility in the United States, charged with a violation of US or international law, and tried by courts-martial or in a district court. (2) transferred to an international tribunal operating under the authority of the United Nations with jurisdiction to hold trials of such a person. (3) transferred to a NATO-run detention facility, or to a different country, provided there are adequate assurances that the person will not be subject to torture in that country. Or (4) held in accordance with the law of armed conflict. Provides for the disposition of other detainees after status reviews, including possible release. Repeals the prohibition on habeaus corpus for detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Expresses the sense of Congress that the judicial review of all applications for writs of habeas corpus brought by detainees that are pending as of the date of enactment of this Act should be suspended until the completion of the status reviews. Repeals the Military Commissions Act of 2006. Requires the President to report to Congress any recommendations for statutory changes necessary to implement a comprehensive federal policy governing the apprehension, detention, trial, transfer, release, or other disposition of individuals captured or apprehended in connection with armed conflicts and counterterrorism operations.
Low-Income Housing Preservation Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide a 15-year recovery period for the depreciation deduction for new investments to rehabilitate qualified low-income housing projects. Exempts $50,000 of such rehabilitation costs from the passive loss limitations. Provides a special rule for computing the depreciation deduction for such housing projects.
Family Foreclosure Rescue Corporation Act - Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish the Family Foreclosure Rescue Corporation to acquire, via the sale of bonds, home mortgages and other obligations and liens secured by real estate which are currently in default or at foreseeable risk of default.
Declares that the United States relinquishes all management authority over such conveyed land, including tribal activities conducted on such land, on completion of such conveyance. Provides that such lands conveyed to the Tribe shall not revert to the United States for management in trust status. Revokes all withdrawals in effect on NOSR-2. Directs the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to administer the land and interests in land reserved from such conveyance and to submit to Congress a land use plan. Prohibits the royalty interest reserved from conveyance that is required to be paid by the Tribe from including any development, production, marketing, and operating expenses. Requires the United States to bear responsibility for and pay gross production taxes, pipeline taxes, and allocation taxes assessed against the gross production. Requires the Tribe to: (1) submit to the Secretary of Energy and Congress an annual report on resource development and other activities of the Tribe concerning such conveyance. And (2) obtain an audit of all such resource development activities every five years and include the results in the next annual report. Requires the Tribe: (1) to manage land adjacent to and within a 14 mile of the Green River in a in a manner that maintains the land's protected status and is consistent with a government-to-government agreement and a specified memorandum of understanding between the Tribe and the Secretary. And (2) in accordance with such agreement, to protect any endangered or threatened plant species located or found on the NOSR-2 land conveyed to the Tribe and to manage, protect, and assert control over any horse not owned by the Tribe or tribal members that is located or found on such land in a manner that is consistent with Federal law. Requires the Secretary of Energy: (1) to prepare a plan for the commencement of remedial action, including groundwater restoration, at the Atlas uranium milling site, Moab, Utah. (2) to retain the amounts received as royalties under this Act to carry out such remedial action. And (3) until funds authorized by this Act are made available, to use available funds to carry out such remedial action and any remediation activity being carried out at the site by the trustee appointed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Provides that if the site is sold after remedial action is completed, the seller shall pay to the Secretary of Energy the portion of the sale price attributable to such action. Amends the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 to designate such site as a processing site, with specified exceptions.
Title I: Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center - Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center Lease Act - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter into a specified memorandum of understanding with the Porter County Convention, Recreation and Visitor Commission to establish a joint partnership with respect to the management of the Dorothy Buell Memorial Visitor Center and, after entering into such a memorandum, lease space in such Memorial Center for use as a visitor center for the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore . Permits the Secretary to use Lakeshore employees to provide visitor information and education at the Lakeshore Center. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Public Land Technical Amendments - Public Land Technical Amendments Act of 2006 - Makes technical amendments with respect to certain public lands.
Voter Registration Modernization Act - Amends the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA) to require each state to make available official public websites for online voter registration. Directs the appropriate state or local election official to ensure that information on the computerized statewide voter registration list may be updated through the official public website. Directs the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to study best practices for implementing the requirements for Internet registration and the online updating of voter registration information. Authorizes the provision of election information by electronic mail to individuals registered to vote who have requested to receive it. Directs the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to make an implementation payment each year to enable each state to meet the requirements of this Act and to carry out activities to improve the administration of federal elections.
Veterans Equal Treatment Act - Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) discontinue the funding allocation formula for the Department of Veterans Affairs medical care system known as the Veterans Equitable Resource Allocation system at the end of the fiscal year in which this Act is enacted. And (2) develop a new formula for the allocation of funds to the national service regions, known as Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs), that takes into account specified requirements, including additional costs incurred by a VISN because the age of veterans, or the number of veterans requiring complex care, in that VISN exceeds the median for all VISNs. Authorizes additional appropriations to be allocated to VISNs that have experienced funding reductions.
SSI Disability Benefits Reform Act of 1995 - Amends title XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act to: (1) require periodic reapplications with respect to continued receipt of SSI benefits by reason of disability, (2) strike certain restrictions regarding determination of SSI ineligibility, and (3) modify criteria regarding mental impairments.
Wastewater Treatment Operator Training and Certification Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to revise provisions concerning training grants and contracts to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to: (1) implement a national program to train persons in the operation of municipal and industrial wastewater treatment works and other water pollution control facilities. (2) make grants to, or contracts with, institutions of higher education to support such programs. And (3) publish guidance on the minimum elements of such programs. Requires chief operators and other designated personnel of publicly owned treatment works to be certified as proficient by the Administrator. Directs the Administrator to publish: (1) guidelines on minimum standards for certification. And (2) a treatment works operator's manual. Authorizes the delegation of authority for a certification program to a State, subject to certain conditions. Makes certifications valid for a five-year period. Permits recertification for an additional five years provided that the individual complies with in-service training and related education. Requires institutions of higher education, in addition to other requirements for receiving scholarships for individuals planning to enter occupations involving treatment works, to: (1) have participated in the treatment works training program. And (2) ensure representation of minorities and women in the scholarship program. Authorizes appropriations.
Medicare Advantage Participant Bill of Rights Act of 2014 - Amends part C (MedicareChoice) of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require a Medicare Advantage (MA) organization to remove a service provider or a supplier from a plan network only for cause, subject to completion of a fair notice and appeals process. Lists as cause for removal: (1) medical negligence, (2) violation of any legal or contractual requirement for the provider or supplier acting within the lawful scope of practice, or (3) unfitness to furnish items and services in accordance with Medicare requirements. Requires an MA organization offering an MA plan to include information on the measures used to establish or modify the plan's provider network: (1) in the annual bid information submitted about the MA plan, and (2) on the plan's Internet Web. Subjects to certain sanctions MA organizations with contracts which fail to meet these information requirements. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to: (1) seek input from patient advocacy groups and others in applying network access adequacy standards, and (2) take necessary measures to ensure that the Medicare Advantage Compare Tool takes into account the preferences and utilization needs of such individuals.
Veterans' Employment Transition Support Act of 2007 or the VETS Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow employers a general business tax credit for hiring certain veterans certified by designated local agencies as having served on active duty in the Armed Forces for a period of more than 180 days or having been discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability. Sets the amount of such credit at 40 of the first-year wages of such veterans and increases the percentage of such credit for disabled veterans based upon their disability ratings.
Low Volume Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to exempt from certain federal motor vehicle safety and labeling standards up to 500 replica motor vehicles per year manufactured or imported by a low volume manufacturer. The term quot, low volume manufacturerquot. Means a motor vehicle manufacturer that annually produces no more than 5,000 motor vehicles worldwide. Manufacturers shall register with DOT to qualify for an exemption. DOT shall require a manufacturer to affix a permanent label to an exempt replica motor vehicle that identifies the motor vehicle safety and labeling standards from which that vehicle is exempt and the model year the vehicle replicates. The Clean Air Act is amended to allow a low volume motor vehicle manufacturer to install in an exempted specifically produced replica motor vehicle a motor vehicle engine from a motor vehicle granted a certificate of conformity with Environmental Protection Agency emission control standards, or another kind of engine granted an executive order for the model year in which the motor vehicle is assembled, if certain requirements are met.
Anti-terrorism Information Sharing Is Strength Act This bill amends the USA PATRIOT Act to allow two or more financial institutions and any association of financial institutions, upon notice provided to the Department of the Treasury, to share information with one another regarding individuals, entities, organizations, and countries suspected of the unlawful activity the proceeds of which form the basis of a money laundering offense. A financial institution or association that transmits, receives, or shares such information to identify and report this activity shall not be liable to any person for such disclosure or for any failure to provide notice of it to the subject, or any other person identified in the disclosure, except where the transmission, receipt, or sharing violates the Act or regulations promulgated under it. The bill expresses the sense of Congress concerning the need for federal law enforcement agencies and regulators, as well as financial institutions, to share information about terrorist activities, money laundering activities, and unlawful activities to the fullest extent possible and in a timely fashion.
Directs the Attorney General to establish a National Task Force on Violence against Women. Includes among the duties of the task force: (1) considering the reports of past Federal and State task forces or commissions on violent crime, family violence, and crime victims. (2) developing strategies for Federal, State, and local law enforcement to protect women against violent crime and to prosecute and punish those responsible for such crime. (3) evaluating the adequacy of sentencing, incarceration, and release of violent offenders against women and making recommendations to ensure that such offenders receive appropriate punishment. And (4) evaluating the adequacy of the treatment of victims of violent crime against women within the criminal justice system and making recommendations designed to improve such treatment. Authorizes appropriations.
Highway Infrastructure Privatization Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for the treatment of a qualified highway infrastructure project bond as an exempt facility bond. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to select no more than 15 highway infrastructure projects as pilot projects eligible for tax-exempt financing.
Enhancing Safety in Medicine Utilizing Leading Advanced Simulation Technologies to Improve Outcomes Now Act of 2007 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to conduct and support research, evaluations, initiatives, and demonstration projects, and provide grants or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements, to enhance the deployment of medical simulation technologies and the incorporation of such technologies and equipment into medical, nursing, allied health, podiatric, osteopathic, and dental education and training protocols. Requires the Director to: (1) establish medical simulation centers of excellence. (2) promote innovation by conducting and supporting research on complex or challenging medical simulation and interdisciplinary simulation technologies and developing an electronic clearinghouse of such technologies. And (3) award grants for purchasing, incorporating, and deploying such technologies for training of physicians, nurses, allied health professionals, and qualified students. Establishes within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the Federal Medical Simulation Coordinating Council. Requires the Director to establish an advisory panel to make recommendations on how to structure programs established by this Act.
National Park Centennial Challenge Fund Act - Establishes in the Treasury the National Park Centennial Challenge Fund which shall consist of qualified donations transferred from the Donations to the National Park Service account and amounts appropriated from the general fund of the Treasury, in accordance with this Act. Makes available all amounts deposited in the Challenge Fund to the Secretary of the Interior for signature projects and programs under this Act (projects and programs identified by the Director of the National Park Service . Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director, to develop a list of signature projects and programs eligible for funding from the Challenge Fund. Requires that such list be submitted to the President and specified congressional committees.
st Century Veterans Equitable Treatment Act - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) establish a maximum specialist referral period. And (2) provide appropriate transportation to such appointments for qualified veterans. Requires the Secretary, in any case in which such period is exceeded or in which transportation was not so provided, to promptly provide for such care or transportation from a private source and to reimburse such source at an appropriate rate. Requires expedited reimbursement procedures. Directs the Secretary to include within standards of performance used for measuring Department medical care administration a standard of assessing improvements in appointment waiting times.
Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge Complex Expansion and Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge Expansion Act - Expands the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge Complex to include specified land and water in the State of Ohio. Permits the Secretary of the Interior to acquire by donation, purchase, or exchange the land and water and interests in land and water within the boundaries of the Complex. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, to study and report to Congress on fish and wildlife habitat and aquatic and terrestrial communities in and around two specified dredge spoil disposal sites in Toledo Harbor. Expands the southern boundary of the Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge to include additional land and water located in the State of Michigan east of Interstate Route 75. Prescribes requirements for administration of the Complex. Directs the Secretary to administer all Federally owned land, water, and interests in land and water that are located within the boundaries of the Complex in accordance with this Act and the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966. States that the Complex shall be managed to strengthen and complement existing resource management, conservation, and education programs and activities in order to facilitate: (1) the provision of major resting, feeding, and wintering habits for migratory birds and other wildlife. And (2) the enhancement of national resource conservation and management in the western basin. States other purposes for which the Complex shall be managed, including to protect and restore the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the Great Lakes basin ecosystem. Directs the Secretary to ensure that hunting, trapping, fishing, wildlife observation and photography, and environmental education and interpretation shall be the priority public uses of the Complex. Authorizes appropriations.
Forest Service Administrative Review Act - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA), through the Forest Service, to establish a pre-decisional administrative review process that will serve as the sole means by which persons can seek an administrative review regarding proposed actions of the Forest Service concerning projects and activities that implement land and resource management plans developed under the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974. Sets forth requirements for the pre-decisional administrative review process concerning the occurrence of the review period, eligibility of a participant in the process, and notice of the proposed decision. Exempts from such process an emergency situation that exists for which immediate implementation of a proposed action is necessary. Applies certain judicial review provisions of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 with respect to: (1) the judicial review of an action challenging a proposed action under this Act, and (2) any request for an injunction regarding such an action. Makes this Act non-applicable to: (1) an authorized hazardous fuel reduction project under such Act that has its own special administrative review process, and (2) a proposed action under this Act for which a categorical exclusion is provided.
National Commission to Eliminate Waste in Government Act of 2001 - Establishes the National Commission to Eliminate Waste in Government to: (1) conduct a private sector survey on management and cost control in Government, (2) conduct in-depth reviews of executive agency operations. (3) review existing General Accounting Office, Congressional Budget Office, and various Inspector General offices' reports and other existing governmental and nongovernmental recommendations for reducing waste, including recommendations from the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control, and to periodically report to the President and Congress on such recommendations that are most significant, on the estimated savings from such recommendations, and on whether the recommendations can be implemented by executive order or require legislative action. And (4) submit to the President and Congress recommendations for improving the budget process and management and for reducing waste and costs. Requires the Commission to be funded, staffed, and equipped by the private sector without cost to the Government.
Sexual Assault Prosecution Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal criminal code to remove any statute of limitations on indictments for sexual offenses. Requires the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to develop a plan to grant voluntary awards to States to facilitate deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis of all casework evidence of unsolved crimes, with the objective of effectively expediting the analysis of all such evidence in an efficient and effective manner and to provide for the entry of DNA profiles into the Combined DNA Indexing System. Directs the FBI to develop grant criteria, including: (1) the number of unsolved crimes awaiting DNA analysis. And (2) the development of a comprehensive plan to collect and analyze DNA evidence. Sets forth award conditions regarding quality assurance standards, DNA sample and analysis availability, and a 15 percent matching requirement.
Older Driver and Pedestrian Safety and Roadway Enhancement Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to implement a roadway safety enhancement program for older drivers and pedestrians to: (1) improve roadway safety infrastructure in states that is consistent with recommendations of the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) in the Highway Design Handbook for Older Drivers and Pedestrians. And (2) achieve significant reductions in roadway fatalities and serious injuries among drivers and pedestrians 65 years old or older on all public roads. Sets forth project eligibility requirements and project identification and selection priorities. Requires the Secretary to finalize revision of the Handbook for publication. Amends the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Act: A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) to repeal its program for roadway safety improvements for older drivers and pedestrians. Requires the Secretary to: (1) appoint a Special Assistant for Older Driver and Pedestrian Safety within the Office of the Secretary. And (2) establish national goals for increasing driver, passenger, and pedestrian safety for persons 65 years old or older. Requires the Secretary to revise the manual on uniform traffic control devices to include a standard for a minimum level of retroreflectivity for pavement markings on all public roads.
Public School Emergency Relief Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to provide emergency impact aid payments to states and, through them, to local educational agencies and Indian schools for each quarter of the 2014-2015 school year for any increase in the enrollment of immigrant children from the corresponding quarter of the 2012-2013 school year. Requires the payments to be used to provide services and assistance to schools that enroll immigrant students. Authorizes the funds to be used for: compensating school personnel, identifying and acquiring curricular material and mobile educational units and leasing sites or spaces, basic instructional services for immigrant students, reasonable transportation costs, health and counseling services, education and support services, and other uses allowed under title III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Requires any payment made on behalf of a disabled immigrant student to be used for special education and related services. Prohibits the use of the emergency impact aid for any expenses that are not incurred during the 2014-2015 school year.
Clean Slate for Marijuana Offenses Act of 2015 Amends the federal criminal code to allow an individual convicted of a qualifying marijuana-related offense, upon filing a petition for expungement and fulfilling all requirements of the sentence for such conviction, to obtain an order granting expungement of such conviction. Defines a qualifying marijuana-related offense as an offense against the United States in which the conduct constituting the offense: (1) was legal under the state law at the time of the offense, or (2) was the possession of not more than one ounce of marijuana. Gives the government 60 days to contest such a petition, in which case the court shall allow the government and the petitioner an opportunity to present evidence and argument relating to the petition. Directs the court to approve or deny the petition based on its determination that the petition either is supported by, or is not supported by, a preponderance of the evidence. Declares that: (1) an order granting expungement restores the individual concerned to the status that individual occupied before the arrest or the institution of criminal proceedings for the offense for which expungement is granted. (2) the individual is not required to divulge information pertaining to an expunged conviction and such conviction shall not disqualify that individual from pursuing or engaging in any lawful activity, occupation, or profession. (3) such individual is not guilty of making a false statement by reason of that individual's failure to recite or acknowledge arrest or conviction of such offense. And (4) records pertaining to an expunged conviction shall be destroyed. Directs the Department of Justice (DOJ) to maintain a nonpublic record of such expungement orders and the names of and alphanumeric identifiers selected by DOJ for persons who obtain expungement, which record shall be made available only to the individual to whom the expungement pertains. Establishes penalties for the unauthorized disclosure of information relating to an expunged conviction.
Microenterprise and Youth Entrepreneurship Development Act of 2011 - Amends the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 for purposes of the microenterprise technical assistance and capacity building grant program to include in the definition of disadvantaged entrepreneur a microentrepreneur operating or intending to operate a business in an investment area. Increases to 60 the minimum percentage of such grants required to be used to benefit very low-income persons, including those residing on Indian reservations. Requires the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to consider the impact of the 2007-2009 economic crisis on an applicant's geographic area when deciding whether to reduce or eliminate matching requirements for applicants with severe constraints on available funding sources. Directs the Administrator to establish an SBA Microenterprise Coordinator position. Requires the Administrator to establish an Office of Youth Entrepreneurship and appoint a Director to carry out: (1) the youth entrepreneur technical assistance grant program to make grants to assist entities, including nonprofit microenterprise development organizations, to provide individuals under 25 years of age with technical assistance related to entrepreneurship. And (2) the youth entrepreneurship curriculum grant program to make grants to applying local educational agencies of states and federally recognized Indian tribes.
Hydrographic Services Improvement Act Amendments of 2008 - Amends the Hydrographic Services Improvement Act of 1998 to revise the definition of hydrographic data to include information acquired through lidar, radar, remote sensing, shoreline and other ocean- and coastal-related surveying, and water level observations. Revises the definition of hydrographic services to include shoreline and water level information. Requires the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to provide hydrographic services. Modifies requirements regarding the awarding of contracts for the acquisition of hydrographic data. Authorizes the Administrator to create and maintain a Joint Hydrographic Institute. Authorizes the Administrator to acquire hydrographic data and provide hydrographic services to support the conservation and management of coastal and ocean resources, save and protect life and property, support commerce resumption after emergencies and disasters, and meet homeland security and maritime domain awareness needs, including carrying out mission assignments. Modifies membership and compensation provisions regarding the Hydrographic Services Review Panel. Authorizes appropriations to carry out nautical mapping and charting, contract for hydrographic surveys, operate hydrographic survey vessels, carry out geodetic functions, carry out tide and current measurement, and acquire a replacement hydrographic survey vessel. Amends the Act of August 6, 1947, to give it the name Coast and Geodetic Survey Act.
Directs the Boys and Girls Clubs of America to make sub-awards to local boys and girls clubs authorizing expenditures associated with providing technology programs, including the hiring of teachers and other personnel and the procurement of goods and services, including computer equipment. Sets forth provisions regarding grant eligibility, application requirements, and criteria for making grant awards. Authorizes appropriations. Allows funds to carry out this Act to be derived from the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund.
Stop Legislative Automatic Spending Hikes (SLASH) Act of 2008 - Requires: (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to report to Congress on all agencies and programs that received ineffective ratings or three consecutive annual adequate ratings under the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993. (2) the termination of such agencies and programs unless continued by statute. (3) the transfer of the functions of such terminated agencies and programs to other appropriate agencies. And (4) an annual OMB estimate of the savings under this Act. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to grant tax rebates to individual taxpayers from the amounts saved by the termination of ineffective agencies and programs under this Act.
Hibben Center for Archaeological Research Act of 2002 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) construct and occupy a portion of the Hibben Center for Archaeological Research at the University of New Mexico. (2) provide a grant to the University to pay the Federal share of construction and related costs for the Center. And (3) furnish specified tenant improvements to the portion of the Center leased to the National Park Service (NPS). Requires the University, before funds available under this Act may be expended for construction or tenant improvement costs, to offer to enter into a long-term lease with the United States that: (1) provides to NPS space in the Center for storage, research, and offices. And (2) is acceptable to the Secretary. Authorizes the Secretary, in order to encourage collaborative management of the Chacoan archaeological objects associated with northwestern New Mexico, to enter into cooperative agreements with the University, other NPS units, other Federal agencies, and Indian tribes for: (1) the curation and conduct of research on artifacts in the research museum collection and archive at the University. And (2) the development, use, management, and operation of the portion of the Center leased to NPS.
Trigger Lock Act of 1997 - Prohibits the transfer of a firearm in the United States, in or affecting commerce, unless a locking device is attached to, or is an integral part of, the firearm. Sets penalties for private transfers and transfers by federally licensed firearms dealers and manufacturers. Prohibits and sets penalties for: (1) the manufacture of a handgun in the United States, in or affecting commerce, unless a locking device that meets specified minimum quality standards is attached to, or is an integral part of, the firearm. (2) the transfer by any licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer of a handgun that is not accompanied by a specified printed message regarding firearm safety and storage. And (3) leaving a loaded firearm, or an unloaded firearm and ammunition, with a minor unless the possession by the minor is supervised by an adult who is not prohibited from possessing a firearm. Directs the National Institute of Justice and the Consumer Product Safety Commission to each study and report to the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury on the feasibility of developing minimum quality standards for locking devices. Requires: (1) the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to conduct a study on the results of this Act and report to the Attorney General and the Secretary. And (2) the Secretary to issue final regulations which prescribe minimum quality standards for locking devices. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1998 to the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services who shall coordinate their expenditures for public service announcements and counter advertisements to educate the public on proper firearm storage.
Bank Insurance Regulation Act of 1995 - Amends Federal banking law to declare that Federal banking statutes may not be construed as limiting or impairing the authority of any State to regulate the manner in which a national bank may engage in insurance activities pursuant to Federal statute within the State. Proscribes State discrimination against national banks: (1) in their functions of providing insurance as principal, agent or broker. Or (2) with respect to licensing qualifications and procedures. Confines the provision of insurance by a national bank acting as principal, agent or broker, to specified Federal statutory parameters. States that Federal banking law may not be construed as affecting the authority of a national bank to act as insurance agent or broker consistent with State law. States that Federal banking law does not enable a State to deny to a national bank the authority to provide a product that a State bank is permitted to provide. Declares that it is not incidental to banking for a national bank to provide insurance as a principal, agent, or broker . Declares to be incidental to banking : (1) bank provision, as agent or broker, of any annuity contract whose interest is tax deductible. And (2) bank provision, as a principal, agent, or broker, of any type of insurance specifically determined by the Comptroller, before May 1995, to be incidental to banking with respect to national banks. Preserves the authority of a bank holding company to engage in insurance agency activities.
Medicare Home Health Equity Act of 1998 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act, as amended by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA), to: (1) restore the per visit cost limit to 112 percent of the mean with regard to payments to home health agencies under Medicare. And (2) revise the interim payment system (IPS) for home health agency services. Directs the Director of the Congressional Budget Office to estimate annually the amount of savings to the Medicare program resulting from the IPS for home health agency services that was established by the BBA. Provides that, if the Director determines that the estimated amount exceeds the amount of savings to the Medicare program that the Director estimated immediately prior to enactment of the BBA by reason of such IPS, then the Director shall certify such excess to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Requires the Secretary, in turn, when an excess is certified, to prescribe rules under which appropriate adjustments are made to the amount of payments to home health agencies in the case of outliers: (1) where events beyond the home health agency's control or extraordinary circumstances, including the agency's case mix, create reasonable costs for a payment year which exceed the applicable payment limits. Or (2) in any other case where the Secretary deems such an adjustment appropriate.
Bankruptcy Fairness and Employee Benefits Protection Act of 2014 - Amends federal bankruptcy law to require the debtor in possession, prior to filing an application seeking rejection of a collective bargaining agreement, to propose only those minimum modifications to employee and retiree benefits and protections that are necessary to prevent liquidation of the debtor. Requires a proposal which modifies employee or retired employee health insurance benefits to modify also the health insurance benefits of the debtor's officers and directors so that their benefits are not more generous than those of debtor's employees. Requires a proposal which modifies other employee benefits, including wages and pension benefits, also to modify such benefits of the debtor's officers and directors by an amount that, at a minimum, is equal to the percentage by which the employees' benefits are modified. Conditions court approval of an application for rejection of a collective bargaining agreement upon a finding that the debtor has established by clear and convincing evidence that modification of employee benefits and protections is the minimum modification necessary to prevent the debtor's liquidation. Declares that rejection of a collective bargaining agreement constitutes a breach of the agreement that entitles debtor's employees to a claim for damages. Grants any retirees whose benefits are modified by a court according to certain procedures a claim equal to the value of benefits lost as a result of the modification. Requires a debtor to pay cash to a retired employee making a claim in an amount equal to the two-year cost of premiums for: (1) continuation coverage. Or (2) a comparable health insurance plan offered through a health care exchange established under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Authorizes the court to require the debtor to pay such retiree claim in an amount equal to the cost of premiums for continuation of coverage, or for such a health insurance plan, for more than two years. Prohibits allowance or payment of a bonus payment to an insider of the debtor, including an incentive-based bonus payment. Increases the priority claim amount for employee wages and benefits. Authorizes the court to prohibit a transfer of compensation made to an insider of the debtor within one year before the petition is filed if it finds that the transfer: (1) was not made in the ordinary course of business, or (2) resulted in unjust enrichment. Amends the Judicial Code to require that a case under bankruptcy law be commenced in the district court for the district in which the largest share of employees, retired employees, physical assets, and operations of the person or entity that is the subject of the case were located in the year immediately preceding commencement of the case. Requires a debtor in possession that sponsors a pension plan or is a member of the controlled group with respect to such a plan, or the trustee of the debtor in possession, to make all required pension contributions that fall due after filing the petition in bankruptcy. Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to require the mandatory summary description of a group health plan to declare: (1) whether the plan permits either the plan sponsor or any participating employer to unilaterally modify or terminate plan benefits affecting employees, retirees, and beneficiaries. And (2) when and to what extent plan benefits are fully vested with respect to these individuals. Presumes that retiree health benefits cannot be modified or terminated as of the date an employee retires or completes 20 years of service with the employer. Allows this presumption to be overcome only upon a showing, by clear and convincing evidence, that the employee, before becoming a plan participant, was made aware, in clear and unambiguous terms, that the plan allowed for such a modification or termination of benefits. Amends the National Labor Relations Act to make it an unfair labor practice for a labor organization and employer to enter into a contract or agreement to modify a previous agreement in a manner that results in a reduction or termination of retiree health insurance benefits, if the modification occurs after the retiree's retirement date. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to report to Congress on strategies used by corporations to avoid obligations to pay promised employee and retiree benefits.
Achieving a Better Life Experience Act of 2011 or the ABLE Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish tax-exempt ABLE accounts to assist an individual with a disability in building an account to pay for qualified disability expenses. Defines qualified disability expenses to include expenses for education, a primary residence, transportation, obtaining and maintaining employment, health and wellness, and other personal support expenses. Treats a qualified ABLE program and an ABLE account in the same manner as a qualified tuition program for income tax purposes . Defines qualified ABLE program as a program established and maintained by a state agency under which a person may make contributions to an ABLE account established to pay for qualified disability expenses. Requires amounts in ABLE accounts to be disregarded in determining eligibility for Medicaid and other means-tested federal programs. Suspends the payment of supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act to an individual during any period in which such individual has excess resources attributable to an ABLE account.
Requires the Secretary to: (1) serve as a clearinghouse of information for persons interested in restoring and preserving historic lifesaving stations, boats, and related equipment. And (2) make information regarding the Service, the Revenue Cutter Service, and related organizations that provided humanitarian assistance to shipwrecked mariners and passengers available to the public. Provides for grants, subject to the availability of appropriations, for coordination and assistance in restoration and preservation of historic lifesaving stations, boats, and other artifacts. Authorizes appropriations.
Commission On Reforming Entitlement Spending Act, or CORE Spending Act - Establishes the Commission On Reforming Entitlement Spending to examine the long-term fiscal challenges facing the United States and develop legislation designed to address them. Authorizes the President and the House or Senate Budget Committee to submit alternatives to the legislative proposal submitted by the Commission. Requires the Director of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to prepare a long-term cost estimate of legislation proposed under this Act or a related amendment, and have it published in the Congressional Record as expeditiously as possible.
National Park System New Area Studies Act - Amends Federal law to repeal provisions which require: (1) the Secretary of the Interior to annually report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to the President of the Senate on areas of national significance that have been studied for potential inclusion in the National Park System (NPS) and requiring, within such report, a listing of not less than 12 such areas. And (2) a synopsis to accompany the annual listing of the areas, for each report previously submitted, of the current and changed condition of the resource integrity of the area and other relevant factors compiled as a result of continual periodic monitoring and embracing the period since the previous such submission or initial report submission one year earlier. Directs the Secretary to submit to the Committee on Resources of the House and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, along with the annual budget, a list of areas recommended for study for potential inclusion in the NPS. Requires the Secretary to give: (1) consideration to those areas that have the greatest potential to meet the established criteria of national significance, suitability, and feasibility. And (2) special consideration to themes, sites, and resources not already adequately represented in the NPS. Prohibits studies of potential areas for inclusion in the NPS from being initiated after the enactment of this Act, except as specifically authorized by an Act of Congress. Provides that nothing in this Act shall: (1) limit the authority of the National Park Service to conduct preliminary resource assessments, gather data on potential study areas, provide technical and planning assistance, prepare or process nominations for administrative designations, update previous studies, or complete reconnaissance surveys of individual areas requiring a total expenditure of less than $25,000. Or (2) be construed to apply to the study of any river segment or any trail for potential addition to the national wild and scenic rivers system or the national trails system. Directs the Secretary to complete the study for each area for potential inclusion in the NPS within three complete fiscal years following the date of enactment of specific legislation providing for the study. Requires: (1) each study to consider specified factors, including similar resources already protected, costs, public support, and alternatives for protecting the area. (2) each study to be completed in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. And (3) the letter transmitting each completed study to the Congress to contain a recommendation regarding the Secretary's preferred management option for the area. Requires the Secretary to submit to such Committees, along with the annual budget, a list of areas which have been previously studied which contain primarily historical resources, and a list of areas which have been previously studied which contain primarily natural resources, in numerical order of priority for addition to the NPS. Authorizes appropriations.
Metropolitan Medical Response System Program Act of 2009 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to conduct a Metropolitan Medical Response System Program that shall assist state and local governments in preparing for and responding to public health and mass casualty incidents resulting from natural disasters, terrorist acts, and other man-made disasters. Authorizes the Secretary, through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to make grants to state and local governments for such purposes. Authorizes the use of grant funds to support the integration of emergency management, health, and medical systems into a coordinated response to mass casualty incidents caused by any hazard. Sets forth eligibility requirements. Directs the Administrator to ensure that each jurisdiction that receives a grant, as a condition of receiving such grant, is actively coordinating its preparedness efforts with surrounding jurisdictions, with the official with primary responsibility for homeland security of the government of the state in which the jurisdiction is located, and with emergency response providers from all relevant disciplines, to effectively enhance regional preparedness. Requires the Administrator: (1) in coordination with the Assistant Secretary, Office of Health Affairs, and a National Metropolitan Medical Response System Working Group, to issue performance measures that enable objective evaluation of the performance and effective use of funds provided in any jurisdiction. And (2) together with the Assistant Secretary and the Working Group, to conduct a review of the Program.
Eating Disorders Awareness, Prevention, and Education Act of 2003 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the use of innovative assistance funds for programs to: (1) improve identification of students with eating disorders, (2) increase awareness of such disorders among parents and students. And (3) train educators with respect to effective eating disorder prevention and assistance methods. Directs the Secretary of Education to carry out a program to broadcast public service announcements to improve public awareness, and to promote the identification and prevention, of eating disorders. Requires the National Center for Education Statistics and the National Center for Health Statistics to: (1) study the impact eating disorders have on educational advancement and achievement. (2) report on current State and local programs to educate youth on the dangers of eating disorders. And (3) recommend Federal, State, and local measures that could be undertaken.
Amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) to allow a state-authorized public entity benefits pool to apply to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) for pass-through funding with respect to health care benefits provided through the pool for coverage years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Requires the Secretary to approve such a pool if the health care benefits provided through it will: (1) provide at least the essential health benefits, (2) provide coverage and cost-sharing protections against excessive out-of-pocket spending that are at least as affordable as the health insurance requirements of PPACA would provide, and (3) result in cost savings to the federal government because the cost of coverage through the pool is less than the cost of coverage through an exchange. Treats an individual covered under such a plan as having minimum essential coverage for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. Requires the Secretary to provide for an alternative means by which an aggregate amount shall be paid to the pool annually based on the premium tax credits, cost-sharing reductions, and small business credits that would have been provided to an exchange plan. Gives the Secretary 180 days to make a determination on an application under this Act.
Consumer and Retail Sales Stimulus Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to reimburse States for the amount of State and local sales tax payable and not collected during the sales tax holiday period. Sets forth requirements and formulae for determining the amount and timing of reimbursement.
Incentives for our Nation's Veterans in Energy Sustainability Technologies ornbsp. The INVEST Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the work opportunity tax credit for the hiring of a specified veteran who works innbsp. A field of renewable energy. A specified veteran means any veteran who is certified as: (1) having received a credential or certification from the Department of Defense of a military occupational specialty or skill in a field of renewable energy or with respect to advanced manufacturing, machinist or welding, or engineering. (2) having completed a vocational degree in a field of renewable energy, or (3) having completed a LEED nbsp. Certification with the United States Green Building Council. The Department of the Treasury shall pay: (1) each US possession with a mirror code tax system amounts equal to the loss to such possession due to this Act. And (2) each US possession without such a tax system an amount estimated to equal the loss to such possession that would have occurred due to this Act if such a tax system had been in effect.
Television and Radio Program Violence Reduction Act of 1993 - Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to prescribe standards requiring television and radio broadcast licensees and cable operators, including cable programmers, to reduce the broadcasting of all video and audio programming which contains violence. Authorizes the FCC to exempt, as public interest requires, certain video and audio programming, including news broadcasts, sporting events, educational programming, and documentaries. Directs the FCC to consider, in its review of an application for renewal of a television or radio broadcast license, whether the licensee has complied with this Act.
Medicare Fracture Prevention and Osteoporosis Testing Act of 2007 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a national minimum payment amount for CPT code 77080 and CPT code 77082 , and any successor to such codes as identified by the Secretary . Directs the Secretary to arrange with the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies to conduct a study for a report to the Secretary and Congress on: (1) the ramifications of Medicare reimbursement reductions for DXA and VFA on beneficiary access to bone mass measurement benefits. And (2) the methods to increase use of bone mass measurement by Medicare beneficiaries.
Promoting Affordable Childcare for Everyone Act or the PACE Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax credit for expenses for household and dependent care services necessary for gainful employment , to: (1) make the credit refundable, (2) increase the rate for the credit, and (3) require the dollar amounts for such credit to be adjusted for inflation after 2016. The bill also increases the amount of employer-provided dependent care assistance which may be excluded from the gross income of an employee and requires the increased exclusion amount to be adjusted for inflation after 2017.
SAFE Transitional License Act This bill amends the S. A. F. E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to temporarily allow loan originators that meet specified requirements to continue to originate loans after moving: (1)nbsp. From one state to another, or (2) from a depository institution to a non-depository institution.
Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area Act of 2015 Establishes the Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area in Utah, consisting of approximately 18,447 acres of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, to provide for the enhancement of recreational uses and the use of off-highway vehicles. Excludes 1,205 acres to be used in a land exchange under this Act. Provides for the conveyance of federal lands in Washington County, Utah, in an equal-value exchange for certain non-federal lands.
Improved Passenger Automobile Fuel Economy Act of 2007 - Revises minimum corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) standards for passenger automobiles to direct the Secretary of Transportation, for each model year, to prescribe minimum CAFE standards for passenger automobiles, with the minimum standard being the current standard of 27.5 miles per gallon. Requires a CAFE standard of 40 miles per gallon for passenger automobiles manufactured in model year 2017. Authorizes credits earned by a manufacturer when the average fuel economy of passenger automobiles manufactured by a manufacturer in a particular model year exceeds an applicable established average fuel economy standard to be applied to any of the three model years immediately following the model year in which such credits are earned, or transferred to a national registry system for greenhouse gases. Authorizes a manufacturer to apply credits purchased through the registry toward applicable CAFE standards for passenger or non-passenger automobiles after model year 2010. Establishes a national greenhouse registry to encourage voluntary actions to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency. Establishes within the Department of Commerce an implementing panel to, among other things promulgate standards for: (1) certification of registries and operation of certified registries. And (2) measurement, verification, and recording of greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gas emission reductions by certified registries.
Birth Defects Prevention Act of 1993 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish birth defects prevention and research programs. Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), to provide for collection, analysis, and reporting of birth defects statistics from birth certificates, infant death certificates, hospital records, or other sources and to collect and disaggregate such statistics by gender and racial and ethnic group. Directs the Secretary to establish at least five regional birth defects monitoring and research programs to collect and analyze information on the number, incidence, correlation, and causes of birth defects. Authorizes the Secretary, acting through the Director of CDC, to award grants or enter into cooperative agreements with specified entities to serve as Centers of Excellence for Birth Defects Prevention Research. Requires one of the Centers to focus on birth defects among ethnic minorities. Requires the CDC to establish a clearinghouse for the collection and storage of data generated from birth defects monitoring programs developed under this Act. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the CDC, to provide for the evaluation, and implementation of prevention strategies designed to reduce the incidence and effects of birth defects. Directs the Secretary to establish an Advisory Committee for Birth Defects Prevention. Requires the Secretary to report biennially to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources regarding birth defects. Authorizes appropriations.
Millennium Challenge Compact Improvement Act (MCIA) - Amends the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 to authorize under specified circumstances: (1) Millennium Challenge Compacts in excess of five years. And (2) concurrent Compacts. States that assistance may be provided through a Compact with a country individually andor through a Compact with two or more countries in the same geographic region collectively. Sets forth provisions regarding suspension or termination of regional Compacts.
Freedom to Serve Without Fear Act of 2011 - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit any person from knowingly carrying a firearm in, or within 250 feet of an entrance to or exit from, a building or structure, or at, or within 500 feet of, any other place, where a Member of Congress is performing an official and representational duty or engaging in campaign activity as a candidate for federal, state, or local office, if there are visible at such distances signs which clearly and conspicuously state that a Member will be present and the time the Member will be present. Specifies exceptions, including pursuant to the express written permission of the Member or the chief of police of the locality involved. Requires a 10 reduction in funds a state would receive for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program for a fiscal year if the state fails to have in effect by the specified compliance date laws and policies that similarly prohibit individuals from knowingly possessing firearms near a venue at which an elected or appointed state or local official is performing an official and representational duty or campaigning for public office.
International Tuberculosis Control Act of 2002 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to revise requirements for assistance for health programs in developing countries to declare that Congress recognizes that the means exist to control and treat the growing international problem of tuberculosis by implementing the Global Plan to Stop Tuberculosis and investing in new mechanisms like the Global Tuberculosis Drug Facility. Makes it a major objective of the foreign assistance program to control the disease. Declares that Congress expects the agency primarily responsible for administering this Act to: (1) coordinate with the World Health Organization (WHO), the Centers for Disease Control, the National Institutes of Health, and other organizations with respect to the development and implementation of a comprehensive tuberculosis control program. And (2) set specified deadlines for the detection of at least 70 percent of the cases of infectious tuberculosis, and the cure of at least 85 percent of them. Earmarks specified amounts of funds for antituberculosis drugs, supplies, patient services, and training in diagnosis and care in order to increase directly observed treatment shortcourse (DOTS) coverage, including funding for the Global Tuberculosis Drug Facility.
Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Firefighters Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to require the establishment of an office within the United States Fire Administration to administer the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Firefighter grant program under this Act. Authorizes the US Fire Administrator to make direct four-year grants to State career, volunteer, and combination fire departments for staff increases in order to provide protection from terrorism and hazards. Specifies Federal grant contribution levels. Requires grantees to retain hired career firefighters for at least one year after grant termination. Terminates program authority ten years after enactment of this Act. Authorizes the Administrator to: (1) give preferential hiring to career firefighters where non-federal contributions exceed the minimums provided for by this Act. And (2) provide technical assistance to States, local governments, Indian tribes, and other public entities. Requires project evaluations.
Rapid DNA Act of 2014 - Amends the DNA Identification Act of 1994 to require: the advisory board on DNA quality assurance methods appointed by the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to include members from federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies. Such board to develop, and the Director to issue, standards for testing the proficiency of qualified agencies and operators in conducting analyses of DNA samples using sample-to-answer DNA analysis systems. The National Institute of Justice to certify that the blind external proficiency testing program for DNA analyses has been established and made available to such qualified agencies or is not feasible. And the Index to facilitate law enforcement exchange of DNA identification information to include information on DNA identification records and DNA analyses prepared by such qualified agencies that are engaged in the intake, processing, booking, detention, or incarceration of individuals charged or convicted of qualifying offenses and that conduct the analysis of DNA samples on a sample-to-answer DNA analysis system.
Veterans TRICARE Choice Act Allows an individual who is eligible to participate in the TRICARE program to: (1) elect to be ineligible to enroll in such program, (2) make tax deductible contributions to a health savings account during the period such individual elects to be ineligible for TRICARE coverage, and (3) enroll in the TRICARE program at a later date during a special enrollment period. Requires DOD to: (1) submit to the Internal Revenue Service information on each TRICARE-eligible individual who makes such election for purposes of determining such individual's eligibility for a health savings account. And (2) report to Congress, annually, on elections by TRICARE-eligible individuals under this Act.
Allows the imposition of restraints: (1) only to ensure physical safety of the individual or others in the provider's care. And (2) only upon the written order of a physician specifying the duration and circumstances under which restraints are to be used . Requires the service provider to investigate the sentinel event reported and the appropriate agencies or entities to review and approve the provider's root cause analysis before reporting on the matter to the Secretary for use in the Sentinel Events Database. Directs the Secretary to establish such Database for use on the Internet, with appropriate privacy safeguards for individuals whose treatment is the subject of a report under this Act. Requires additional reporting in certain cases, including: (1) to the Secretary about a provider identified as having a pattern of poor performance. And (2) to the State Attorney General or the appropriate State law enforcement agency in sentinel events involving death. Mandates sanctions for failure to report. Bars disclosure or discovery of a root cause analysis in a civil action.
Mandates Information Act of 1998 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require a congressional committee report on any bill or joint resolution that includes any Federal private sector mandate to contain information concerning the impact of such mandate on consumers, workers, and small businesses, including any disproportionate impact in particular regions or industries. Revises provisions concerning legislation subject to a point of order to: (1) define the point of order for a determination by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office that it is not feasible to determine the economic impact of a Federal mandate. And (2) replace certain references to Federal intergovernmental mandates with references to Federal mandates with respect to legislation reported by the Appropriations Committees. Provides a point of order against consideration of legislation that would increase the direct costs of Federal private sector mandates by an amount that causes the stated threshold of $100 million per fiscal year to be exceeded. Requires the Director, at the request of a Senator, to prepare an estimate of the direct costs of a Federal mandate contained in such Senator's amendment. Requires the Director to report to the Congress on the economic impact of the amendments made by this Act to the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 on domestic employment and businesses. Redefines Federal intergovernmental mandate to provide that a decrease to, or a cap on, an existing Federal program which annually provides $500 million or more entitlement authority is not such a mandate unless it provides new or expanded authority to amend financial or programmatic responsibilities so as to permit required services to continue to be provided.
Fuel-Efficient Fleets Act of 2006 - Amends federal transportation law to set forth certain phased-in minimum fuel economy standards for new federal fleet vehicles. Authorizes the award of grants to assist states in purchasing vans, trucks, sport utility vehicles, minivans, or passenger automobiles that meet the new federal fleet vehicle fuel economy standards. Subjects federal agencies to Buy American requirements requiring not less than 50 of newly purchased or leased federal fleet vehicles to be US manufactured.
Joint Committee on Agency Rule Review Act of 2003 - Amends Federal law to establish the Joint Committee on Agency Rule Review. Prescribes a procedure for expedited consideration by the House of Representatives of a joint resolution reported by such committee disapproving an agency rule.
Concussion Treatment and Care Tools Act of 2010 or the ConTACT Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish and publish concussion management guidelines that address the prevention, identification, treatment, and management of concussions in school-aged children, including standards for such children to return to play after experiencing a concussion. Requires the Secretary to convene a conference of medical, athletic, and educational stakeholders to assist in establishing such guidelines. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to states to: (1) provide for the collection by elementary schools, secondary schools, or youth sports associations of information on the incidence and prevalence of concussions among school-aged children attending or participating in sports or activities. (2) adopt, disseminate, and ensure the implementation by such schools and associations of the guidelines. And (3) fund implementation by schools and associations of preseason baseline and post-injury testing, including computerized testing, for school aged children. Directs the Secretary to require states receiving grants under this Act to utilize applicable expertise and services offered by high school sports associations, youth sports associations, athletic trainer associations, and local chapters of national brain injury organizations in such states. Requires the Secretary to coordinate with the heads of other federal departments and agencies that carry out activities related to concussions and other traumatic brain injuries. Sets forth reporting requirements.
Health Care Relief Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow: (1) a refundable tax credit up to $1,000 for the health insurance coverage costs of a previously uninsured taxpayer, the taxpayer's spouse, and dependents. And (2) certain small business employers a business tax credit for amounts paid under a new health plan for employee health insurance coverage.
Setting New Priorities in Education Spending Act - Repeals specified provisions of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Lists the repealed provisions as those pertaining to: the Early Reading First program, under subpart 2 of part B of title I. The William F. Goodling Even Start Family Literacy programs, under subpart 3 of part B of title I. Improving literacy through school libraries, under subpart 4 of part B of title I. Demonstration projects of innovative practices for enabling children to meet state academic content and achievement standards, under part E of title I. The Close Up Fellowship program, under part E of title I, comprehensive school reform, under part F of title I, school dropout prevention, under part H of title I. School leadership, under subpart 5 of part A of title II. Advanced certification or advanced credentialing for teachers, under subpart 5 of part A of title II. Special education teacher training, under subpart 5 of part A of title II. Early childhood educator professional development, under subpart 5 of part A of title II. Teacher mobility, under subpart 5 of part A of title II. The National Writing Project, under subpart 2 of part C of title II. The teaching of traditional American history, under subpart 4 of part C of title II, enhancing education through technology, under part D of title II. Programs to improve language instruction for limited English proficient children, under part B of title III. State grants for safe and drug-free schools and communities, under subpart 1 of part A of title IV. Grants to reduce alcohol abuse, under subpart 2 of part A of title IV. Mentoring programs, under subpart 2 of part A of title IV. Elementary and secondary school counseling programs, under subpart 2 of part D of title V. Partnerships in character education, under subpart 3 of part D of title V. Smaller learning communities, under subpart 4 of part D of title V. The Reading is Fundamental Inexpensive Book Distribution program, under subpart 5 of part D of title V. Gifted and talented students, under subpart 6 of part D of title V. The Star Schools program, under subpart 7 of part D of title V. The Ready to Teach program, under subpart 8 of part D of title V. The Foreign Language Assistance program, under subpart 9 of part D of title V. The Carol M. White Physical Education Program, under subpart 10 of part D of title V. Community technology centers, under subpart 11 of part D of title V. Educational, cultural, apprenticeship, and exchange programs for Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, and their historical whaling and trading partners in Massachusetts, under subpart 12 of part D of title V. Excellence in economic education, under subpart 13 of part D of title V. Grants to improve the mental health of children, under subpart 14 of part D of title V. Arts in education, under subpart 15 of part D of title V. Combatting domestic violence, under subpart 17 of part D of title V. Healthy, high-performance schools, under subpart 18 of part D of title V. Additional assistance for certain local educational agencies impacted by federal property acquisition, under subpart 20 of part D of title V. The Women's Educational Equity Act, under subpart 21 of part D of title V. The Native Hawaiian Education program, under part B of title VII. And the Alaska Native Education program, under part C of title VII.
Limits Federal assistance to the Northern Mariana Islands for FY 1994 through 1998 as set forth in the Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future Federal Financial Assistance of the Northern Mariana Islands of December 1992. Continues the payment of a specified annual amount after FY 1998 unless otherwise provided by law. Bars the obligation of funds in accordance with the Agreement until the Secretary of the Interior certifies to specified congressional committees in each fiscal year that the Northern Mariana Islands: (1) does not have an amount of aliens that exceeds the 1992 average daily number of aliens in the Islands as determined by the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) and imposes a specified numerical limitation on the number of alien workers admitted for employment in the garment industry. (2) is implementing a petitioning mechanism to measure and compare the number of alien admissions with the 1992 average and provides the INS with such information for verification purposes, (3) has enacted and is enforcing measures to raise revenues. (4) is implementing a rate schedule approved by the Secretary that will phase in charges for users of utilities to recover specified costs of power, water, and sewer services. (5) has plans approved by the Secretary for the use of project funds. And (6) has enacted and is enforcing laws to provide no greater deductions from wages for housing, food, transportation, health care, employment fees, or other expenses for workers not permanently admitted into the Islands than are contained in the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and which allow for the same exemptions from the payment of minimum wages as provided in such Act.
Ethanol Stimulus Act of 2006 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for an increased small ethanol producer tax credit for ethanol production in states which have a gasoline consumption rate of more than 2 of aggregate nationwide consumption and which produce less than 2 of the aggregate nationwide amount of ethanol .
Gas Price Relief Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax, for a one-year period, on oil companies for a percentage of the windfall profit from all barrels of taxable crude oil. (2) allow a tax deduction for the payment of any windfall profit tax. (3) reduce by 10 percent the excise tax on highway motor fuels for a period of one year after the enactment of this Act. (4) provide for transfers of windfall profit tax receipts and amounts from the general fund to the Highway Trust Fund. And (5) make adjustments to highway motor fuel taxes for floor stocks of such fuels held by dealers prior to, or after, the effective date of reduction in such taxes under this Act. Defines windfall profit as the excess of the removal (sales) price of a barrel of taxable crude oil over the base price of such barrel.
Israel Anti-Boycott Act This bill declares that Congress: (1) opposes the United Nations Human Rights Council resolution of March 24, 2016, which urges countries to pressure companies to divest from, or break contracts with, Israel. And (2) encourages full implementation of the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 through enhanced, governmentwide, coordinated US-Israel scientific and technological cooperation in civilian areas. The bill amends the Export Administration Act of 1979 to declare that it shall be US policy to oppose: requests by foreign countries to impose restrictive practices or boycotts against other countries friendly to the United States or against US persons. And restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by an international governmental organization, or requests to impose such practices or boycotts, against Israel. The bill prohibits any US person engaged interstate or foreign commerce from supporting: any request by a foreign country to impose any boycott against a country that is friendly to the United States and that is not itself the object of any form of boycott pursuant to United States law or regulation, or any boycott fostered or imposed by any international governmental organization against Israel or any request by any international governmental organization to impose such a boycott. The bill amends the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 to include as a reason for the Export-Import Bank to deny credit applications for the export of goods and services between the United States and foreign countries, opposition to policies and actions that are politically motivated and are intended to penalize or otherwise limit commercial relations specifically with citizens or residents of Israel, entities organized under the laws of Israel, or the government of Israel.
Medicare Chronic Care Practice Research Network Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a Medicare Chronic Care Practice Research Network to develop and evaluate evidence-based chronic care management for Medicare beneficiaries with multiple, chronic conditions, with a focus on beneficiaries under the Medicare fee-for-service program whose care is most costly.
Hass Avocado Quality Assurance Act of 2007 - Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for mandatory minimum maturity standards for all domestic and imported Hass avocados sold to consumers in California. Provides exceptions for commercial processing and charitable and relief uses. Sets forth penalty provisions.
Small Watershed Rehabilitation Amendments of 1998 - Amends the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to provide financial assistance to an eligible local organization for the rehabilitation of structural measures originally constructed as part of a covered water resource project. Limits the amount of such assistance to 65 percent of total rehabilitation costs. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to a requesting organization in planning, designing, and implementing rehabilitation projects. Prohibits any assistance authorized under this Act from being used to perform operation and maintenance activities. Outlines assistance application requirements. Directs the Secretary to establish a system of approving rehabilitation assistance requests from eligible organizations equitably. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1999 through 2008. Earmarks funds authorized for the first two fiscal years for an assessment by the Secretary of the rehabilitation needs of covered projects.
Iran and Hizballah Western Hemisphere Prevention Act of 2017 This bill declares it to be US policy to prevent further penetration of Iran and Hizballah into the Western Hemisphere and to prioritize diplomatic efforts to engage countries in the hemisphere to disrupt and degrade Hizballah's illicit networks operating in the region. The Department of State shall submit a strategy to prevent hostile activities by Iran and disrupt and degrade Hizballah's illicit networks in the hemisphere. The President shall instruct the State Department to prioritize US diplomatic engagement with countries in the hemisphere in order to increase cooperation and build the capacity of the governments of those countries to prevent such activities and disrupt and degrade such networks. The bill amends the Hizballah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015 to require the President to instruct: the US Permanent Representative to the Organization of American States (OAS) to work to secure OAS support for a resolution that would declare Hizballah to be a terrorist organization and address such illicit networks. And the US Ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to work in securing a report on compliance by participating states with OSCE Decision Number 1063, the Consolidated Framework for the Fight Against Terrorism, with regard to Hizballah. And US diplomats to work with international forums to identify government entities in Latin America and the Caribbean that support individuals affiliated with Hizballah in the hemisphere. The State Department must provide to the relevant congressional committees annual briefings that review its efforts to implement such strategy and US bilateral and multilateral engagement with respect to Hizballah in the hemisphere.
Hunt Unrestricted on National Treasures Act or the HUNT Act - Requires each head of a federal public land management agency , to annually make available to the public on its website a report that includes: (1) a list of the lands more than 640 acres in size under its jurisdiction on which the public is allowed to hunt, fish, or use such lands for other recreational purposes and to which there is no public access or egress or to which such access or egress to the lands' legal boundaries is significantly restricted. (2) a list of such lands that the agency head determines have significant potential for use for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes. And (3) a plan to provide such access and egress that is consistent with the travel management plan in effect. Requires each agency head to make available to the public on the agency's website, and thereafter revise, a list of roads or trails that provide the primary public access and egress to the legal boundaries of contiguous parcels of land equal to more than 640 acres in size under the agency's jurisdiction on which the public is allowed to hunt, fish, or use such lands for other recreational purposes. Amends the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 to require allotment from the Land and Water Conservation Fund of an amount not less than 1.5 of the moneys appropriated for projects that secure public access to federal land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes through easements, rights-of-way, or fee title acquisitions from willing sellers.
Cancels the sequestration of budgetary resources for FY2013 ordered on March 1, 2013, pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 . Requires the budget sequester for an account in the security and non-security categories under the Balanced Budget Act for FY2013 to be implemented within each account as determined by the head of the agency with spending authority over such account. Requires: (1) the agency head to notify the Appropriations Committees of a proposed exercise of authority for implementing a sequester, and (2) the Appropriations Committees to approve any agency proposal. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense (DOD) to: (1) take appropriate actions in the management of current DOD multiyear contracts to minimize the effects of a sequester in carrying out such contracts. And (2) begin new programs, projects, and activities and enter into new contracts for multiyear procurements that are authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2013. Allocates funding for prior year shipbuilding cost increases for the Navy.
Limits the Federal share of project costs to 75 percent. Waives the matching requirement if the cost of the project is $25,000 or less or the project is necessary to undertake planning and monitoring requirements for coral reef areas under specified Federal laws. Allocates 40 percent of grant awards for projects in the Pacific Ocean, 40 percent for projects in the Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of Mexico, and the Caribbean Sea, and the remainder for projects that address emergency priorities or threats. Sets forth procedures for project review and approval. Authorizes appropriations.
Human Trafficking Prioritization Act This bill expresses the sense of Congress that the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking of the Department of State will be more effective in carrying out duties mandated by Congress in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 and can do so without an increase in either personnel or budget, if: (1) the Office's status is changed to that of a Bureau within State. And (2) the Office is headed by an Assistant Secretary with direct access to the Secretary of State, rather than an Ambassador-at-Large. The bill amends the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 to change the status of the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking to that of the Bureau to Combat Trafficking in Persons. State must submit to Congress a report detailing: for each current Assistant Secretary of State position, the exact title and length of designation as Assistant Secretary and whether that designation was legislatively mandated or authorized and, if so, the relevant statutory citation. And whether State intends to designate one of the Assistant Secretary of State positions as the Assistant Secretary of State to Combat Trafficking in Persons and the reasons for that decision. The bill prohibits subsequent inclusion for more than one consecutive year on the special watch list of countries whose compliance with minimum standards for the elimination of human trafficking is full, partial, or insignificant of any country that: was included on the list for four consecutive years after enactment of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, and was subsequently included on the exclusive Tier 3 list of countries not making significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with such standards. No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for diplomatic and consular programs to carry out this bill.
Title I: Yankton Sioux and Santee Sioux Tribes Equitable Compensation - Yankton Sioux Tribe and Santee Sioux Tribe Equitable Compensation Act - Establishes in the Treasury the Yankton Sioux Tribe Development Trust Fund and the Santee Sioux Tribe Development Trust Fund. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary), on the first day of the 11th fiscal year beginning after enactment of this Act, to transfer from the General Fund into such Funds specified amounts plus the equivalent of the annually compounded interest that would have accrued on such amounts if they had been invested in interest-bearing US obligations or in obligations guaranteed by the United States. Requires the Secretary to invest in such obligations the portion of such Funds not required to meet current withdrawals. Directs the Secretary, beginning the same day as such transfer, to withdraw the aggregate amount of interest deposited into the Funds each fiscal year and transfer it to the Secretary of the Interior for making payments to the Yankton Sioux Tribe and the Santee Sioux Tribe for carrying out projects and programs under their respective Tribal Plan. Directs the tribal council of each Tribe to prepare a Tribal Plan for using payments to carry out projects and programs to promote: (1) economic development, (2) infrastructure development. Or (3) the educational, health, recreational, and social welfare objectives of the Tribe and its members. Prohibits per capita distributions to Tribe members. States that payments under this Act shall not affect other Federal services or programs to which the Tribes are otherwise entitled, or the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin power rates, nor be subject to Federal or State income tax. Authorizes appropriations. Extinguishes all monetary claims of the Tribes against the United States for loss of value or use of land resulting from the Fort Randall and Gavins Point projects of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program upon the Secretary's transfers to the tribal Funds established by this Act. Title II: Martin's Cove Land Transfer - Martin's Cove Land Transfer Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to offer to convey to the Corporation of the Presiding Bishop specified public lands for the purposes of public education, historic preservation, and enhanced recreational enjoyment of the public. Requires the Corporation to pay the United States the historic fair market value of the property conveyed, including any improvements. Directs the Secretary and the Corporation to enter into an agreement, binding on any successor or assignee, that ensures that the property conveyed shall, consistent with the site's historic purposes: (1) be available in perpetuity for public education and historic preservation. And (2) provide to the public, in perpetuity and without charge, access to the property. Directs the Secretary to require that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and its current or future affiliated corporations grant the United States a right of first refusal to acquire the property at historic fair market value if the Church or any of its corporations seeks to dispose of it. Requires that the proceeds of this conveyance be used exclusively by the National Trails Interpretive Center Foundation, Inc. of Casper, Wyoming, to advance the public understanding and enjoyment of the National Historic Trails System. Requires the Foundation to use such proceeds only to: (1) complete construction of the exhibits connected with the opening of the National Historic Trails Center. And (2) maintain, acquire, and further enhance the Center's exhibits, artistic representations, historic artifacts, and grounds. States that this title does not set a precedent for the resolution of land sales between or among private entities and the United States.
Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness Act- Designates certain lands in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness.
Amends Internal Revenue Code provisions relating to the tax deduction for donations of fractional interests in tangible personal property to: (1) permit donors to claim an increased deduction based upon the market value of subsequent gifts of fractional interests, (2) extend to 20 years the period in which donors of fractional interests must contribute their entire interest in donated property, and (3) require donors of fractional interests greater than $1 million to attach a statement of value obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to their tax returns.
Flagship Species Conservation Act of 2004 - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to use amounts in the Multinational Species Conservation Fund (Fund) to provide conservation assistance for flagship species of fish or wildlife where project proposals for such conservation are approved by the Secretary in accordance with this Act. Identifies eligible applicants and sets forth requirements for project proposals. Authorizes the Secretary to approve a project proposal if it will help recover and sustain viable populations of flagship species in the wild by assisting efforts in foreign countries to implement flagship species conservation programs. Establishes in the Fund a separate account to be known as the Flagship Species Conservation Fund to fund approved flagship species conservation projects. Authorizes the Secretary to convene an advisory group to assist in carrying out this Act.
Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Projects Authorization Act of 2006 - Deems the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program projects authorized by this Act to be feasible and eligible for financial assistance under the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act. Confirms such projects as technically and financially viable. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water distribution systems or recycled water system facilities in cooperation with: (1) Palo Alto, California, (2) Pittsburg, California, and the Delta Diablo Sanitation District, (3) Antioch, California, and the Delta Diablo Sanitation District, (4) Pacifica, California, and the North Coast County Water District, (5) Redwood City, California. And (6) Gilroy, California, and the Santa Clara Valley Water District. Limits the federal share to 25 of each project's cost. Terminates the Secretary's authority to carry out this Act 10 years after its enactment.
Makes funds appropriated to the Department of Defense (DOD) available for costs incurred by the National Guard in conducting international military-to-civilian contacts, civilian-to-civilian contacts, and comparable activities in order to: (1) support objectives of the commander of the combatant command for the theater of operations in which the contacts occur, (2) build international civil-military partnerships and capacity, (3) strengthen cooperation between US and foreign departments and agencies. (4) facilitate intergovernmental collaboration between the US government and foreign governments. And (5) facilitate the exchange of information between the US government and foreign governments on matters relating to defense and security.
Public Safety Officers' Defense Act - Amends the Federal judicial code to deny a court, justice, or judge jurisdiction to consider any claim relating to the judgment or sentence in an application for a writ of habeas corpus on behalf of a person in custody pursuant to the judgment of a State court for killing a public safety officer, unless the applicant shows constitutional error or that the claim qualifies for consideration based on a new rule of constitutional law or a factual predicate that could not have been previously discovered. Directs that any such application presented to a court, justice, or judge other than a district court be transferred to the appropriate district court for consideration or dismissal, with an exception. Sets forth requirements regarding time limits in: (1) district court. And (2) the court of appeals . Makes time limitations under this Act applicable to an initial application, a second or successive application, and any re-determination of an application or related appeal following a remand by the court of appeals or the Supreme Court for further proceedings.
Global Autism Assistance Act of 2008 - Directs the Administrator for the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to establish and administer a health and education grant program to: (1) support activities by nongovernmental organizations and other service providers, including advocacy groups, focused on autism in developing countries. And (2) establish a teach the teachers program to train health and education professionals working with autistic children in developing countries.
Unintended Pregnancy Reduction Act of 2006 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to: (1) prohibit a state from providing for medical assistance through enrollment of an individual with benchmark coverage or benchmark-equivalent coverage unless it includes certain family planning services and supplies. (2 ) include women who are not pregnant but who meet certain income eligibility standards in a mandatory categorically needy group for family planning services purposes. And (3) allow a state Medicaid plan to provide for making medical assistance available to such individuals during a presumptive eligibility period.
Personal Health Investment Today Act of 2009 or the PHIT Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a medical care tax deduction for up to $1,000 of qualified sports and fitness expenses. Defines qualified sports and fitness expenses as amounts paid for fitness center memberships, physical exercise programs, and exercise equipment.
Empowering Teaching and Learning Through Education Portals Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award matching grants to states to implement or maintain education portal initiatives that include collecting and making available: (1) high quality resources for teachers, students, and parents, that support public education from Head Start through graduate school. And (2) resources for ongoing and sustainable teacher training in the use of education technology at such educational levels. Allows teachers, students, and parents to contribute resources to their state portal, which is to be accessible statewide. Permits states to use funds available to them under part A of title II of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to maintain such initiatives after their receipt of this Act's funding ends. Requires the Secretary to hold a conference, at least biennially, for state advisory panels on education portal initiatives to share information on best practices. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) count corporate contributions to such initiatives separately from other corporate contributions in applying charitable contribution deductibility limits. And (2) allow corporate deductions for contributions to such initiatives to reach 50 of a corporation's taxable income.
Fair Wage Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to increase the federal minimum wage for employees to: $8.00 an hour 30 days after this Act's enactment date or January 1, 2017, whichever date is earlier. $9.00 an hour, one year after the date the $8.00 an hour wage takes effect, $10.00 an hour, after two years, $11.00 an hour, after three years, $12.00 an hour, after four years, $13.00 an hour, after five years, $14.00 an hour, after six years, $15.00 an hour, after seven years. And the amount determined by the Department of Labor eight years after such date and annually thereafter. The bill directs Labor, 60 days before any increase in the minimum wage, to publish it in the Federal Register and on Labor's website. The bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an employer who pays at least $1 more per hour than the federal minimum wage, but not more than $15 per hour, a credit against the employment tax equal to 6.2 of wages paid by such employer during the calendar year.
Stop Illegal Reentry Act or Kate's Law This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to increase from two years to five years the maximum prison term for an alien who reenters after being denied admission, excluded, deported, or removed. It establishes: a 10-year maximum prison term for an alien who reenters after being denied admission, excluded, deported, or removed on 3 or more prior occasions. And a 5-year mandatory minimum prison term for an alien who reenters after being removed following a conviction for an aggravated felony or following 2 or more prior convictions for illegal reentry.
This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration a Rural and Mountainous Advisory Council. The council shall undertake information gathering activities, develop technical advice, and present best practices or recommendations to DOT regarding the testing and deployment of highly automated vehicles and automated driving systems in rural, remote, mountainous, insular, or unmapped areas to evaluate operational limitations caused by natural geographical or man-made features or adverse weather conditions and to enhance the safety and reliability of such vehicles and systems in such areas or conditions. A quot, highly automated vehiclequot. Is defined as a motor vehicle equipped with an automated driving system. An automated driving system is defined as the hardware and software that are collectively capable of performing the entire dynamic driving task on a sustained basis, regardless of whether such system is limited to a specific operational design domain.
Urges the Department of State to make the release of Chinese imprisoned or detained on religious grounds a major objective of US foreign policy with China. Prohibits the Department of State, the US Information Agency, the Agency for International Development, or any other Federal agency or entity from obligating or expending funds for the participation of certain Chinese individuals and organizations in any conference, exchange program, or activity relating to education, culture, training, or any other purpose, until the President certifies to the Congress that specified imprisoned or detained Chinese citizens have been unconditionally released by the Chinese Government.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code regarding estates and trusts to provide rules for the gratuitous transfer of qualified employer securities to an employee stock ownership plan from charitable remainder trusts.
Estate Tax Repeal Acceleration (ExTRA) for Family-Owned Businesses and Farms Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise the estate tax exclusion provisions applicable to family-owned business interests. Allows an exclusion from the gross estate for the adjusted value of certain family business interests acquired from a decedent . Defines carryover business interests and revises ownership requirements and material participation rules applicable to such interests. Provides that carryover business interests acquired from a decedent shall be treated as transferred by gift and that the basis of such property shall be the lesser of the adjusted basis of the decedent, or the fair market value of such property at the date of the decedent's death .
Fair American Corporate Tax Act or FACT Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) decrease from 35 to 28 the top marginal income tax rate for corporations. And (2) provide that the amount of any tax withholding for deductible payments made by a US subsidiary of a foreign parent corporation to a related subsidiary in any country that has a tax treaty with the United States shall not be less than the amount which would be imposed if the payment were made directly to the foreign parent corporation.
National Missile Defense Deployment Criteria Act of 2001 - Amends the National Missile Defense Act of 1999 to allow deployment of a national missile defense system (system) only if: (1) the system is technologically feasible. (2) system cost in relation to other Department of Defense (DOD) priorities will not lead to an overall reduction in national security by reducing resources available for other defense priorities, (3) the system will not diminish overall US national security. (4) the system will not threaten to disrupt relations with US nuclear allies, US European allies, Russia, the People's Republic of China, and other nations. And (5) the threat of a long-range ballistic missile attack from a nation of concern is clearly demonstrated. Prohibits the President from directing DOD to deploy a system unless and until: (1) the President certifies to Congress that the above deployment conditions have been met. And (2) a joint resolution is enacted concurring in the President's certification. Prohibits DOD procurement funds from being obligated for a system unless: (1) the President certifies to Congress that adequate system tests have been undertaken to meet identified threats against countermeasures. And (2) a joint resolution is enacted concurring in the President's certification. Requires the Secretary of Defense to direct the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization to: (1) include specified system countermeasures in system ground and flight testing conducted before the system becomes operational. And (2) determine the extent to which the exoatmospheric kill vehicle and the system can reliably discriminate between warheads and such countermeasures.
Federal Reserve Board Civil Rights Compliance Act of 1999 - Directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to post at its premises a notice to be prepared or approved by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission setting forth excerpts from or summaries of the pertinent provisions of title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and information pertinent to the rights and procedures applicable under such Act to Board employees and applicants. Requires the Board to report to the congressional banking committees on actions it has taken to achieve compliance with such Act.
Dollar Bill Act of 2013 - Directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) to: (1) designate a quot, Target Weekquot, . (2) employ a random process to select a specific day, hour, minute, and second during such Target Week as quot, Target Momentquot, . (3) make the value of the US dollar at the Target Moment equal to the price of gold on the exchange operated by the Commodities Exchange, Inc. (COMEX) of the New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc.. And (4) maintain the value of the US dollar within plus or minus 2 of such price thereafter. Instructs the Board maintain the value of the United States dollar within the Target Range directly, via open market operations, and not indirectly, as in the current practice of targeting the Federal Funds rate. Requires the Board to use its banking and bank regulatory powers to maintain and promote stable and effective financial markets during and after the transition to a defined value for the US dollar. Entitles all entities that depreciate capital assets for tax purposes to 100 expensing of all capital investment for tax purposes in the year that the investment is made. Requires the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), in addition to the scoring CBO will do of the tax changes provided in this Act, to calculate the impact on federal revenues on a present value basis. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to remove Federal Reserve Bank authority to pay earnings on reserves.
Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity Act of 2013 - Directs the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation each to carry out a one-year program providing for the refinancing of qualified single-family housing mortgages it owns through a refinancing mortgage in accordance with this Act and the policies and procedures of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Defines a qualified mortgage as one, regardless of whether the mortgagor is current on payments due or in default, that: (1) is an existing first mortgage for purchase of, or refinancing another first mortgage on, a one- to four-family dwelling, including a condominium or a share in a cooperative ownership housing association, that is occupied by the mortgagor as principal residence, (2) is owned or guaranteed by the particular GSE. And (3) was originated on or before enactment of this Act. Specifies the terms and conditions of a refinancing mortgage, including a 40-year term to maturity and a prohibition on borrower fees. Requires waiver or forgiveness of all fees and penalties related to any default or delinquency on the original mortgage. Authorizes the FHFA Director, in his or her sole discretion, to require each enterprise to pay a servicer an appropriate fee for each qualified mortgage of an enterprise that the servicer refinances through a refinancing mortgage. Prohibits any requirement of a property appraisal.
Establishes the Emergency Trade Deficit Commission to examine, and report to the President and Congress on, the causes of the US trade deficit, together with recommendations to address and reduce trade imbalances, such as the US merchandise trade deficit, in order to promote sustainable economic growth that provides broad-based income and employment gains. Prohibits the President from submitting to Congress any free trade agreement or legislation implementing one until the report has been delivered to Congress and to the President.
Maggie's Law: National Drowsy Driving Act of 2002 - Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to enter into agreements with, and make grants to, State highway offices and other driving safety organizations to obtain and distribute national, State, and local drowsy driving education programs and supporting materials. Directs that grant funds be used to: (1) implement programs designed to prevent deaths and injuries due to drivers who are impaired by fatigue and sleep deprivation. (2) develop a standardized curriculum on the risks and prevention of drowsy driving and fall-asleep motor vehicle crashes. (3) collaborate with national drowsy driving campaigns to distribute information and educational messages and to review existing State model programs. (4) adopt policy statements and work plans for the installation and expansion of continuous shoulder rumble strips for interstate highways. (5) adopt codes on accident report forms to report fatigue-related or fall-asleep crashes. (6) provide training in the detection and reporting of drowsy driving as a factor in motor vehicle crashes. And (7) provide education programs to the police and the courts regarding the sanctions available for drowsy driving accidents. Directs the Secretary to study the scope of the problem of fatigue-related automobile crashes.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for 50 of the cost of qualified advanced mine safety equipment property . Defines such property to include: (1) an emergency communication technology or device for constant communication with individuals outside the mine, (2) an electronic identification and location device, (3) an emergency oxygen-generating device, (4) pre-positioned oxygen supplies. And (5) a comprehensive atmospheric monitoring system to monitor levels of carbon monoxide and other gases present in a mine. Revises the tax credit for mine rescue team training expenses to: (1) increase the amount of such credit. (2) allow such credit as an offset against the alternative minimum tax, and (3) make such credit permanent.
Occupational Safety and Health Amendments of 1995 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to provide that employee safety and health participation committees are not prohibited under the National Labor Relations Act or the Railway Labor Act. Provides for risk assessment in standards making. Directs the Secretary of Labor to consider the number of workers exposed to the toxic material or harmful physical agent, the nature and severity of the potential impairment, and its likelihood, in determining the priority for establishing standards dealing with such materials or agents. Requires publication of risk assessments for final standards and certification that such standards justify their costs or publication of reasons why such certification cannot be made. Directs the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with States for the provision of consultation services by such States to employers concerning the provision of safe and healthful working conditions. Reduces penalties for nonserious violations. Provides for warnings in lieu of citations.
Sexual Harassment Prevention Act of 1993 - Directs employers to keep posted in conspicuous places a notice prepared or approved by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission that sets forth: (1) the definition of sexual harassment found in the Code of Federal Regulations. (2) the fact that sexual harassment is a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. (3) information describing how to file a complaint with the Commission alleging such harassment. (4) an address and toll-free number to be used to contact the Commission. And (5) other information required by the Commission. Provides for annual notices by employers to individual employees which provide such information and a description of the procedures used by the employers to resolve allegations of sexual harassment. Requires employers to provide to each supervisory employee information specifying the responsibility of, and the methods to be used by, such employee to ensure that immediate and corrective action is taken to address allegations of sexual harassment. Prescribes civil penalties for willful violations of this Act. Directs the Commission to make model notices and voluntary guidelines for procedures dealing with allegations of sexual harassment available to employers at no cost as well as a toll-free number for information regarding this Act.
Hospital to Home- and Community-Care Linkage Development and Incentive Grant Program - Amends the Public health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to disseminate information and materials to assist specified entities in replicating successful programs aimed at offering care management to hospitalized individuals in need of long-term care so that services to meet individual needs and preferences can be arranged in home- and community-based settings as an alternative to long-term nursing home placement. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to such entities. Directs the Secretary to establish a program under which incentive grants may be awarded to assist agencies and organizations in developing and expanding programs and projects that facilitate the discharge of individuals in hospitals or other acute care facilities who are in need of long-term care services and placement of such individuals into home- and community-based settings. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) eligibility to receive grants, (2) application requirements, (3) criteria for the award of grants, (4) use of, and limitations on, grants, and (5) evaluation and reports. Authorizes appropriations.
Defense of Environment and Property Act of 2012 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to redefine navigable waters to specify that included territorial seas are those that are: (1) navigable-in-fact. Or (2) permanent, standing, or continuously flowing bodies of water that form geographical features commonly known as streams, oceans, rivers, and lakes that are connected to waters that are navigable-in-fact. Excludes from such term: (1) waters that do not physically abut navigable waters and lack a continuous surface water connection to navigable waters. (2) man-made or natural structures or channels through which water flows intermittently or ephemerally, or that periodically provide drainage for rainfall. Or (3) wetlands without a continuous surface connection to bodies of water that are waters of the United States. Prohibits activities carried out by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the Army Corps of Engineers from impinging upon states' power over land and water use. Prohibits: (1) aggregation of such excluded wetlands or waters from being used to determine or assert federal jurisdiction. And (2) wetlands without a continuous surface connection to bodies of water that are waters of the United States from being considered to be under federal jurisdiction. Authorizes states to appeal jurisdictional determinations by the Administrator that would affect their ability to plan the development and use of land and water resources for 30 days after such determination. Considers ground water to be state water. Prohibits ground water from being considered in determining or asserting federal jurisdiction over isolated or other waters. Prohibits the Administrator from using a significant nexus test to determine federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and waters of the United States. Gives no force or effect to: (1) the Corps' rule entitled Final Rule for Regulatory Programs of the Corps of Engineers. (2) EPA's proposed rule entitled Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on the Clean Water Act Regulatory Definition of 'Waters of the United States'. (3) the guidance document entitled Clean Water Act Jurisdiction Following the US Supreme Court's Decision in Rapanos v. United States Carabell v. United States. And (4) any subsequent regulation of or guidance issued by federal agencies that defines or interprets the term navigable waters. Prohibits the Corps and EPA from promulgating rules or issuing guidance that expands or interprets the definition of navigable waters unless expressly authorized by Congress. Sets forth provisions requiring federal agencies to obtain consent of private property owners prior to entering their land to collect information about navigable waters. Requires federal agencies that issue regulations that relate to the definition of navigable waters or waters of the United States and diminish the fair market value or economic viability of a property to pay the affected property owner an amount equal to twice the value of the loss. Gives no force or effect to such regulation until landowners with such claims have been compensated.
Campus Sexual Violence Elimination Act or Campus SaVE Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require each institution of higher education (IHE) participating in a title IV program to include in its annual security report a statement of policy regarding its sexual assault and other intimate partner violence programs and the procedures it follows when such an offense occurs. Requires such procedures to include the provision, in writing, to students or employees that report to the IHE that they have been the victim of such an offense: (1) an explanation of their right to notify proper law enforcement authorities and their option to be assisted by campus authorities in doing so. (2) an explanation of their right to obtain protective orders or enforce protective orders that are already in existence, which the IHE must honor. And (3) contact information for victim services on-campus and in the locality. Requires an IHE's policy regarding sexual assault and other intimate partner violence to include: (1) education that promotes awareness of the offenses, (2) possible sanctions imposed following disciplinary action, (3) procedures victims should follow after such an offense occurs, (4) on-campus disciplinary procedures. And (5) the notification of victims regarding their options for, and assistance in, changing academic, living, transportation, and working situations. Directs the Secretary of Education to seek the Attorney General's counsel regarding the development, and dissemination to IHEs, of best practices for preventing and responding to sex offenses and other intimate partner violence.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to use funds under this Act to award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to institutions of higher education (IHEs) and public and private nonprofit entities to carry out Transition-to-Teaching programs. Requires the Secretary, before making such awards, to: (1) consult with the Secretaries of Defense and of Transportation with respect to the appropriate amount of funding necessary to continue and enhance the Troops-to-Teachers program. And (2) transfer such amount to the Department of Defense to carry out such program. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a written agreement with the Departments of Defense and of Transportation, or take other appropriate steps to ensure effective continuation of such program. Authorizes appropriations. Sets forth requirements for applications for Transition-to-Teaching program assistance. Authorizes use of such funds for: (1) recruitment of program participants, (2) training stipends and other financial incentives for program participants. (3) assistance to IHEs or other teacher training providers to meet particular needs of professionals changing their careers to teaching. (4) placement activities, including identifying high-poverty local educational agencies (LEAs) with needs for particular skills and characteristics of the newly trained program participants and assisting those participants to obtain employment in those LEAs. And (5) post-placement induction or support activities for program participants. Requires program participants who complete training to teach in a high-poverty LEA for at least three years, or else repay all or a portion of their training stipend or other incentive.
Transparency and Honesty in Energy Regulations Act of 2017 This bill prohibits the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Department of the Interior, and the Council on Environmental Quality from considering the social cost of carbon, methane, or nitrous oxide as part of any cost benefit analysis in the rule making process, unless a federal law is enacted authorizing such consideration. They may also consider those social costs if they use an estimate that: (1) complies with the requirements of the Office of Management and Budget's quot, Circular A-4quot, document. (2) uses the discount rates of three and seven percent specified in that document. (3) considers only the domestic costs and benefits of the activity. And (4) uses only the most up to date and empirically estimated equilibrium climate sensitivity distributions, and realistic time horizons. The EPA must report on the number of proposed and final rulemakings, guidance documents, and agency actions since January 2009 that use those social costs, including as part of any cost benefit analysis required under Executive Order 12866 or other relevant authority.
Strengthening Manufacturing and Rebuilding Transit Act of 2010 or SMART Act - Requires the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to give preference to the award of discretionary or competitive grants, loans, loan guarantees, and lines of credit to transportation infrastructure projects, including the purchase of transit vehicle rolling stock, rail, and supporting equipment, in which manufactured goods to be purchased have a domestic content percentage that: (1) exceeds applicable federal requirements. And (2) in the case of rolling stock, is consistent with industry-recognized standards, if available. Directs the Secretary to establish a centralized website that provides rules and guidance, waiver notices, and agency actions of the domestic content standards for DOT federal-aid programs. Requires a federal agency head to subject to public notice and comment any request for waiver, and to publication in the Federal Register and notification to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) of any waiver, of Buy America requirements involving: (1) federal-aid highway and public transportation projects, (2) AMTRAK acquisition and maintenance of equipment and facilities, and (3) intercity passenger rail service corridor capital assistance projects. Directs the DOT Inspector General to report annually to Congress on acquisitions funded by federal transportation infrastructure investments that do not comply with Buy American requirements. Authorizes the Secretary to work with the Hollings Manufacturing Partnership Program and other manufacturing-related local intermediaries to develop a multi-agency comprehensive plan to expand domestic manufacturer rail and transit vehicle supply chains.
Requires the Director to: (1) coordinate such activities with similar activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of the National Institutes of Health. And (2) conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the causes of, and to find a cure for, lupus, including research to determine the reasons underlying the elevated prevalence of the disease among African-American and other women. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Delivery of Services Regarding Lupus - Mandates grants for the establishment, operation, and coordination of effective and cost-efficient systems for the delivery of essential services to individuals with lupus and their families. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) ensure that grant projects provide services for lupus diagnosis and disease management. And (2) integrate such projects with other grant programs carried out by the Secretary. Authorizes technical assistance. Authorizes appropriations.
Requires the Secretary to study and report to specified congressional committees on whether certain additional properties are appropriate for inclusion in the Unit. Authorizes appropriations.
Energy Price and Economic Stability Act of 2001 - Instructs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to establish cost-of-service-based rates for electric energy that is sold at wholesale, through April 30, 2003, for use in the area covered by the Western Systems Coordinating Council of the North American Electric Reliability Council. Provides for State enforcement of this Act. Instructs FERC to order refunds of rates and charges in the area covered by the Coordinating Council if electric energy sales were not just and reasonable. Amends the Federal Power Act to prohibit any FERC order for emergency connection or exchange of facilities unless the person subject to such order has been guaranteed full payment or reimbursement by either the Federal or State government.
Mortgage Insurance Fairness Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to treat mortgage insurance premium payments as tax deductible interest. Phases out the deduction for taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes exceeding $100,000.
Airline Passenger Fairness Act - Amends Federal aviation law to revise provisions prohibiting an air carrier, foreign air carrier, or ticket agent from engaging in unfair or deceptive practices or unfair methods of competition in air transportation to include within the definition of such prohibited practices an air carrier's failure to: (1) inform a ticketed passenger, upon request, whether the flight on which the passenger is ticketed is oversold. (2) permit a passenger holding a confirmed reserved space on a flight to use portions of that passenger's ticket for travel, rather than the entire ticket, regardless of the reason any other portion of the ticket is not used. (3) deliver a passenger's checked baggage within 24 hours after the arrival of the flight on which the passenger traveled and on which the passenger checked the baggage, except for reasonable delays in delivery of such baggage. (4) provide a consumer full access to all fares for that air carrier, regardless of the technology the consumer uses to access the fares if such information is requested by that consumer. (5) provide notice to each passenger holding a confirmed reserved space on a flight with reasonable prior notice when a scheduled flight will be delayed for any reason. (6) inform passengers accurately and truthfully of the reason for the delay, cancellation, or diversion of a flight. (7) refund the full purchase price of an unused ticket if the passenger requests a refund within 48 hours after the ticket is purchased. And (8) disclose to consumers information that would enable them to make informed decisions about the comparative value of frequent flyer programs among airlines.
Pueblo of Isleta Settlement and Natural Resources Restoration Act of 2006 - Establishes in the Treasury the Pueblo of Isleta Natural Resources Restoration Fund for: (1) settlement of the claims of the Pueblo of Isleta. And (2) the acquisition, restoration, improvement, development, and protection of land, natural resources, and cultural resources within the exterior boundaries of the Pueblo. Provides for the maintenance and investment of the restoration fund. Ratifies the Agreement of Compromise and Settlement entered into between the United States and the Pueblo on July 12, 2005, as modified by the Extension and Modification Agreement executed by the United States and the Pueblo on June 22, 2006, to settle the claims in the case of Pueblo of Isleta v. United States, Docket No. 98-166L, pending in the US Court of Federal Claims. Directs the Pueblo and the United States to execute and file a joint stipulation for entry of final judgment in dismissal of such case. Provides for the payment of compensation to the Pueblo from the permanent judgment appropriation for all monetary damages and attorney fees, interest, and other fees and costs of any kind that were or could have been presented in connection with Docket No. 98-166L.
Exempt Organization Simplification and Taxpayer Protection Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) require an organization that intends to operate as a tax-exempt social welfare organization to notify the Secretary of the Treasury of such intent with information as to its identity and purpose, (2) allow such an organization to seek a declaratory judgment concerning its status and classification as a tax-exempt organization, and (3) authorize the Secretary to disclose information for investigations of violations of internal revenue laws relating to unauthorized disclosure or inspection of tax information and unlawful acts of revenue officers or agents. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to study and report on the process used for determining how Internal Revenue Service (IRS) enforcement cases are selected and processed. Prohibits any IRS officer or employee from using a personal email account to conduct official business.
Genetic Privacy and Nondiscrimination Act of 2003 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to prohibit a group or individual health care plan or health insurance issuer from restricting enrollment or adjusting premium or contribution amounts on the basis of predictive genetic information about an individual or family member of such individual.
National Nurse Act of 2011 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish the position of National Nurse for Public Health within the Office of the Surgeon General. Includes among the duties of such position providing leadership and coordination of Public Health Service nursing professional affairs for the Office of the Surgeon General and other agencies of the Public Health Service, conducting media campaigns, and providing guidance and leadership for activities that will increase public safety and emergency preparedness. Requires the National Nurse for Public Health to: (1) participate in identification of national health priorities, (2) encourage volunteerism of nurses and strengthen the relationship between government agencies and health-related national organizations, and (3) promote the dissemination of evidence-based practice in educating the public on health promotion and disease prevention activities.
Prohibits the manufacturer of a prescription drug or device and a health care provider from being subject to punitive damages with respect to harm caused by a drug or device if the drug or device was approved under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act unless: (1)the manufacturer withholds from the Food and Drug Administration. Or (2) the health care provider withholds from a patient, information which is relevant to the performance of the drug or device and causally related to the harm suffered by the plaintiff.
Promoting Wellness for Individuals with Disabilities Act of 2006 - Amends the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to require the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board to issue and periodically review standards setting forth the minimum technical criteria for medical diagnostic equipment used in medical settings, to ensure that such equipment: (1) is accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. And (2) allows independent entry to, use of, and exit from the equipment by such individuals to the maximum extent possible. Applies such standards to examination tables and chairs, weight scales, mammography equipment, x-ray machines, and other radiological equipment commonly used for diagnostic purposes by health professionals. Amends the Public Health Service Act to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make grants for programs to promote good health, disease prevention, and wellness for individuals with disabilities and prevent secondary conditions in such individuals. Requires the Secretary to establish a National Advisory Committee on Wellness for Individuals With Disabilities to set priorities to carry out such programs, review grant proposals, make recommendations for funding, and annually evaluate the progress of such programs in implementing the priorities. Provides for training programs to improve competency and clinical skills for providing health care and communicating with patients with disabilities.
Directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to make appropriate arrangements for the award, on behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal collectively to the Tuskegee Airmen in recognition of their unique military record, which inspired revolutionary reform in the Armed Forces. Directs that, after such award, the medal be displayed at the Smithsonian Institution. Expresses the sense of Congress that such Institution should make the medal available for display elsewhere, particularly at locations associated with the Airmen. Provides funding from the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund to cover the cost of duplicate medals authorized for sale.
Office of Domestic Product Promotion Act - Establishes within the Department of Commerce an Office of Domestic Product Promotion to: (1) work with US businesses to promote domestic products. (2) provide information and advice to them on benefits and incentives available for producing domestic products, including the award of federal procurement contracts and federal and state tax benefits. (3) establish a comprehensive publicly available database of businesses that use, sell, or would prefer to use or sell, domestic products. (4) develop tools and ideas on how to promote domestic products. And (5) coordinate with state governments to further the Office's performance of its duties.
Faith-Based Drug Treatment Enhancement Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to declare that the amendments made by this Act apply to each program that makes awards of Federal financial assistance to prevent or treat substance abuse. Allows, notwithstanding any other provision of law, a religious organization to be an award recipient, make subawards, provide services through vouchers, or accept vouchers for providing services. Makes religious organizations eligible on the same basis as any other nonprofit private organization. Prohibits Federal or State: (1) discrimination against an organization on the basis that the organization has a religious character. And (2) requirements that a religious organization, in order to be a program participant, remove religious art, icons, scripture, or other symbols. Requires a religious organization to arrange for services through an alternative entity if an individual objects to the religious organization. Allows a religious organization to require a beneficiary who has elected to receive services from the organization to actively participate in religious practice, worship, and instruction. Prohibits using funds for sectarian worship or instruction, unless the beneficiary may choose where the assistance is redeemed or allocated. Declares that assistance to or on behalf of a beneficiary is aid to the beneficiary and not to the organization. Requires, if a State law or constitution would prevent the expenditure of State or local funds by religious organizations, that the Federal funds shall be segregated from State or other public funds. Requires, for personnel working in religious organization drug treatment programs, giving credit for religious education and training equivalent to credit given for secular course work. Mandates waiver of educational requirements if the religious organization has a record of successful drug treatment and the State or local government fails to demonstrate empirically that the educational qualifications are necessary.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make competitive matching grants to such institutions or consortia . Limits to two the number of such grants to any institution. Requires institutions to use grant funds to provide services or assistance to students, particularly economically disadvantaged students, at risk of leaving their programs of study without baccalaureate degrees. Requires this to be done through one or both of the following: (1) intensive summer programs for incoming first-year students. And (2) student support service programs, targeted to students in their first two years of postsecondary education. Allows institutions, if they carry out either or both of those required programs, to use such funds also for grants to students in their first two years of postsecondary education. Allows use of such funds to serve students who have completed their first two years of postsecondary education if they are at-risk and the institution will first meet the needs of all its eligible first- and second-year students for services under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Veteran-Owned Small Business Promotion Act of 2009 - Reinstates the veteran-owned small business loan program, under which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may provide loans to veteran-owned small businesses for: (1) financing plant construction, conversion, or expansion. (2) financing the acquisition of equipment, facilities, machinery, supplies, or materials. Or (3) supplying working capital. Makes eligible for such loans small business owners who are veterans and have a disability rated at 10 or more, and includes all veterans . Repeals the authority to make direct loans under the program . Increases from $200,000 to $500,000 the maximum loan guaranty amount. Authorizes the Secretary to subsidize a loan lender in order to reduce by up to 12 the interest rate paid by the veteran-owned small business. Includes under a loan preference members of the National Guard and reserves activated in support of the Global War on Terrorism. Limits performance bond requirements of veteran-owned small businesses with respect to the construction, alteration, or repair of any Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) public building or public work. Treats a small business owned and controlled by veterans as a socially and economically disadvantaged small business for purposes of contracts awarded to the latter businesses under provisions of the Small Business Act.
Inventory of Assets for Communications Facilities Act of 2018 This bill requires the General Services Administration and the Department of Commerce to ensure the federal real property database includes an inventory of real property on which a broadband communications facility could be constructed or that is suitable for deployment of broadband communications facilities or services. Commerce must make the inventory available to any entity that constructs or operates communications facilities or provides communications services.
Public Housing Regulatory Relief Act - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to authorize the waiver of public housing requirements. Permits a public housing agency (PHA) to retain savings realized through efficient management. Authorizes the recapture of public housing modernization funds. Authorizes PHAs to borrow against future modernization funds. Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to study PHA labor and acquisition requirements.
Medicare Patient IVIG Access Act of 2009 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to collect data on the differences, if any, between: (1) payments to physicians for immune globulins using average sales price payment methodology. And (2) costs incurred by physicians for furnishing these products. Requires the Secretary also to review data on the access of eligible individuals to immune globulins. Requires the Secretary, after completion of the review, to provide, if appropriate, an additional payment to such physicians for all items related to the furnishing of immune globulins as part of hospital outpatient services. Provides for Medicare coverage of and payment for intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) administered in the home. Allows the Secretary to contract for the collection of data on the practice of IVIG infusion. Directs the Secretary to review data collected under such a contract as well as data submitted by members of the medical community related to the current infusion payment codes under part B of SSA title XVIII. Requires the Secretary, upon completion of any data collection and review, to: (1) notify the appropriate Medicare administrative contractors regarding which existing infusion codes shall be used for purposes of part B IVIG reimbursement. Or (2) report to Congress and the RBRUS Committee (RUC) on why an additional infusion payment code is necessary. Extends the meaning of durable medical equipment to include disposable drug delivery systems, including elastomeric infusion pumps, for the treatment of colorectal cancer.
Preserving Data in Government Act of 2017 This bill requires that any open government data that is made available to the public for at least 90 consecutive days must: (1) remain machine-readable, available in an open format, and part of the worldwide public domain or, if necessary, be published with an open license. And (2) not be altered in such a way as to decrease its machine-readable nature. It shall not be a violation of such requirement to alter: (1) the digital location or format of open government data for routine asset maintenance or long-term archiving if such alteration does not decrease the open public accessibility or the machine-readable nature of the data, or (2) the contents of such data to update it or correct an error. Any substantial alteration of the data's contents shall be recorded in a log that is made available to the public in an open format along with the data. An agency may remove such data from public availability if: the agency determines that the data is too costly to maintain or does not provide sufficient value to the public, the agency publishes specified notice at least six months in advance of such removal, and the data is available for download on the worldwide public domain for at least six months before such removal. This bill shall not apply to such data that is required to be removed from public availability or altered under another provision of law.
Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPA) to prohibit federal loan guarantees for innovative technologies unless: (1) an appropriation for the cost of the guarantee has been made. (2) the Secretary of Energy (DOE) has received and deposited into the Treasury payment in full from the borrower for the cost of the guarantee. Or (3) a combination of appropriations or payments from the borrower has been made that is sufficient to cover the cost of the guarantee. Authorizes the Secretary to waive requirements to provide a third-party credit report if: (1) such report, in the Secretary's opinion, is not relevant to the determination of the credit risk of a project. (2) the project costs are not projected to exceed $100 million. And (3) the applicant agrees to accept the credit rating the Secretary assigns. Authorizes the head of the loan guarantee program, if there is either a severe shortage of candidates or a severe hiring need for particular positions, to recruit and directly appoint into the competitive service highly qualified critical personnel with specialized knowledge important to program functions . Amends the EPA and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to authorize the Secretary to: (1) retain agents and professional advisors in connection with guarantees and related activities. And (2) require loan guarantee applicants and recipients to pay all fees and expenses of such agents and advisors. Authorizes the Secretary to make energy efficiency loan guarantees for projects starting construction by September 30, 2011, to retrofit residential, commercial, and industrial buildings, facilities, and equipment.
Campaign Sunlight Act of 2012 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to direct the Federal Election Commission (FEC) to establish and operate a website through which members of the public may view the contents of political advertisements. Requires the sponsor of a political advertisement to submit its contents to the FEC in a format the FEC may require. Requires the format to make the sources of such contents available on the website directly or through hyperlinks to the sources. Requires the sponsor to submit an advertisement to the FEC within: (1) 24 hours after its dissemination, if it is disseminated during the 7 days before the election involved, or (2) 72 hours after dissemination during any other period.
Amends the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 to repeal subtitles A and E of title V (Estate, Gift, and Generation-Skipping Transfer Tax Provisions. Repeals the sunset provisions applicable to the remaining provisions of title V. Increases the unified tax credit amount for years before 2009. Modifies provisions concerning phaseout of graduated rates and unified credit. Sets valuation rules for certain transfers of nonbusiness assets, or assets not used in the active conduct of one or more trades or businesses. Sets forth criteria under which certain passive assets shall not be treated as used in the active conduct of business and defines passive assets. Specifies a limitation on minority discounts.
Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act of 2008 - Requires the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy to develop a policy for federal science agencies to carry out a program of workshops that educate specified federally funded researchers about methods that minimize the effects of gender bias in evaluation, including of federal research grants, for hiring, tenure, and promotion, and for selection for any other honor based on academic merit. Requires the support of at least one workshop every two years among the federal science agencies in the major science and engineering disciplines. Authorizes federal science agencies to carry out such program by making grants to eligible organizations as described in this Act. Requires the Director to transmit a report evaluating such program's impact in reducing gender bias towards women engaged in research funded by the federal government. Requires the Director to develop a policy to extend research grant support and provide interim technical support for federally funded researchers who are caregivers. Requires transmission of a copy of such policy to specified congressional committees. Requires federal science agencies to collect specified standardized annual data for all applications for research and development grants to institutions of higher education and to submit the data collected to the National Science Foundation (NSF). Makes the NSF responsible for storing and publishing all such grant data. Requires annual publication of a list of the institutions of higher education science and engineering departments represented by individuals who attend the workshops described above.
Patient Access to Disposable Medical Technology Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to cover substitute disposable medical technology, subject it to a special payment rule, and exempt it from competitive acquisition.
Job Creation and Economic Growth Act - Amends the Budget Control Act of 2011 to redesignate the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Job Creation, and Economic Growth. Adds as a goal of the joint committee spurring economic growth and restoring the nation's workforce to full employment over the period of FY2012 and FY2013. Revises the duties of the joint committee to require it to make recommendations that will significantly improve US short-term and long-term employment levels and spur economic growth. Requires the joint committee, by November 23, 2011, to vote on proposed legislative language to carry out joint committee recommendations with respect to job creation measures, including a statement of job creation achieved by such legislation. Increases the number of members of the joint committee from 12 to 16. Directs the joint committee to appoint some of its members to a special subcommittee to make recommendations on measures to spur economic growth and restore the nation's workforce to full employment over the period of FY2012 and FY2013. Prescribes procedures for expedited congressional consideration of proposed joint committee job creation legislative language.
Pension Right to Know Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to set forth notice requirements for large pension plans which significantly reduce future benefit accruals.
Amends the Clean Air Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to promulgate regulations ensuring that after December 31, 2010, all gasoline or diesel motor vehicle fuel sold or dispensed in the contiguous United States contains not less than ten percent ethanol and not less than five percent biodiesel .
Federal Trade Commission Reauthorization Act of 2008 - Amends the Federal Trade Commission Act to authorize appropriations to carry out the powers and duties of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and to improve technology regarding the FTC's competition and consumer protection missions. Authorizes the FTC to directly handle civil actions under the Act or to request the Attorney General do so. Allows the FTC to give appointment preference to administrative judges with antitrust or trade regulation litigation and related economic analysis experience. Permits the FTC to commence a civil action to recover civil penalties in a district court for any violation of the Act. Permits the FTC to enforce the Act against nonprofit organizations. Authorizes the FTC to operate under general federal law rulemaking and judicial review provisions instead of under rulemaking provisions of the Act. Requires that the FTC, notwithstanding any other provision of law, conduct rulemaking proceedings regarding subprime mortgage lending and nontraditional mortgage loans in accordance with such general rulemaking and judicial review provisions. Transfers to each federal banking agency, with respect to depository institutions, the authority to prescribe regulations governing unfair or deceptive practices by banks and savings and loan institutions currently vested in the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board . Allows a state, except during an FTC action, to bring an action to enforce the Act or any other Act enforced by the FTC regarding violation of an FTC subprime mortgage lending or nontraditional mortgage loan rule. Amends the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act to state that more restrictive state laws are not preempted. Provides for an FTC study of alcoholic beverage marketing. Amends the Federal Trade Commission Act to remove references to the Communications Act of 1934 from the definition of Acts to regulate commerce.
Compassionate Pain Relief Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a 60-month program under which parenteral diacetylmorphine may be dispensed from pharmacies for the relief of pain from terminal cancer . States that for purposes of such program the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and titles II and III of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 shall not apply with respect to: (1) the importing of opium. And (2) the manufacture, distribution, and dispensing of parenteral diacetylmorphine. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees concerning: (1) program-related activities. And (2) activities related to the management of pain. Permits the Secretary at any time six months after implementation of the program to modify or terminate the program if: (1) the program is no longer needed. Or (2) modifications or termination are needed to prevent substantial diversion of the diacetylmorphine.
Republic of the Marshall Islands Supplemental Nuclear Compensation Act of 2011 - Amends the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 to direct the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to periodically conduct: (1) a visual study of the concrete exterior of the Cactus Crater containment structure on Runit Island, and (2) a radiochemical analysis of the groundwater surrounding and in the Cactus Crater containment structure on Runit Island. Makes specified funds available to conduct such radiochemical groundwater analysis. Amends the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act of 2000 to include a citizen or national of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia within the definitions of covered employee, atomic weapons employee, and Department of Energy contractor employee. Reduces compensation awarded to an individual under such Act who also received compensation under the Compact of Free Association between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the same illness by any compensation received under such Compact, other than medical benefits and benefits for vocational rehabilitation that the individual received by reason of the illness, after deducting the reasonable costs of obtaining those benefits. Amends the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 to direct the Secretary of the Interior to provide to the Republic of the Marshall Islands an annual supplemental health care grant to: (1) provide enhanced primary health care, with an emphasis on providing regular screenings for radiogenic illnesses by upgrading existing services or by providing quarterly medical field team visits in Enewetak, Bikini, Rongelap, Utrik, Ailuk, Mejit, Likiep, Wotho, Wotje, and Ujelang Atolls, which were affected by the US nuclear testing program. (2) enhance the capabilities of the Marshall Islands to provide secondary treatment for radiogenic illness. And (3) operate a whole-body counting facility on Utrik Atoll. Provides for a National Academy of Sciences assessment of the US nuclear testing program's health impacts on the residents of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
Medicare Dual Eligible Prescription Drug Coverage Act of 2005 - Provides that, for prescriptions filled between January 1 and June 30, 2006, requirements for the coordination of prescription drug benefits with Medicare as primary payor for dual eligible individuals under the new prescription drug benefit program (PDP) under Medicare part E shall not apply. Requires a State to continue to provide Medicaid medical assistance with respect to prescription drugs as if such coordination requirements had not been enacted. Declares that no State or the District of Columbia shall be required to pay (reimburse) the Secretary of Health and Human Services for Medicaid prescription drug costs for dual eligible individuals for any month before July 1, 2006. Earmarks specified amounts for education and outreach to dual eligibles regarding prescription drug coverage and monitoring of their transition to prescription drug coverage under Medicare. Requires a PDP sponsor and an MA organization offering an MA-PD plan to submit to the Secretary appropriate information regarding the drug utilization of enrollees in such plans who are full-benefit dual eligible individuals. Directs the Secretary to collect data on the drug utilization of full-benefit dual eligible individuals and share it with the States and District of Columbia in as close to a real-time basis as possible. Directs the Comptroller General of the United States to study and report to Congress on the clawback formula.
Expresses the sense of Congress that: defeating the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) is critical to maintaining a unified Iraq in which all faiths and ethnicities are afforded equal protection and full integration into the government and society. The people of Kurdistan face a deadly threat from ISIL which the Iraqi Security Forces, of which the Peshmerga are a component, are currently unable to match in armaments. Any outstanding issues between the government of Iraq and the Kurdistan Regional government (KRG) should be resolved expeditiously to allow for a resumption of normal relations. And ISIL's continued growth presents an imminent threat to Iraqi Kurdistan, the rest of Iraq and the Middle East, and international security. Authorizes the President to: (1) provide defense articles, defense services, and related training directly to the KRG to support international coalition efforts against ISIL or any successor group. And (2) issue licenses authorizing US exporters to export defense articles, defense services, and related training directly to the KRG. Prohibits the provision of any defense article, service, or related training to the KRG under this Act unless the KRG agrees that it will not: provide any such defense article, service, or training to anyone who is not a KRG officer, employee, or agent. Or use or permit the use of any such defense article, service, or training for purposes other than those for which it was provided, unless the President's consent has been obtained.
Congressional Accountability Now Act or the CAN Act This bill prohibits the use of funds: (1) for the official travel expenses of a Member of Congress or legislative branch employee for airline accomodations that are not coach-class, (2) for the long-term leasing of a vehicle by a Member of Congress, and (3) for a Member's official mail other than a document transmitted under official letterhead. The bill amends the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 to reduce the annual rate of pay for Members of Congress by 10. This bill excludes Members of Congress from further coverage under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS). This exclusion does not apply to the Vice President. Nothing in this bill shall: (1) be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, entitlement, or benefit under CSRS or FERS for any Member covering any period before its enactment. Or (2) affect the eligibility of a Member to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan. Members currently covered by CSRS or FERS may elect to retain such coverage by giving written notice within 90 days after enactment of this bill.
Transparency and Accountability in Congressional Travel Act of 2012 - Prohibits a Member of Congress or congressional employee from undertaking any official foreign travel unless, within 14 days before and within 14 days after such travel, the individual prepares and submits to the Clerk of the House of Representatives or the Secretary of the Senate, as appropriate, a specified statement containing travel-related information. Allows the Member or congressional employee to exclude classified information from such statements, so long as the Member includes documentation in support of such exclusion. Requires the Secretary of Defense (DOD) or the Secretary of State, as appropriate, for official travel by a Member or congressional employee for which any of the costs are to be paid by their respective departmental funds, to give such individual, within 10 days after completion of such travel, a written statement specifying: (1) the cost incurred, itemized by the cost of transportation, lodging, and meals. And (2) whether the aircraft used was chartered, private, military, or, in the case of commercial aircraft, whether the seating was coach, business class, or first class. Requires the Clerk and the Secretary to post such statements on their respective official public Internet sites. Prohibits a vacation stopover for annual leave at any point during official foreign travel. Specifies restrictions on official foreign travel by Member and House committee employees, except travel to a military installation or to a theater of operations of the Armed Forces. Requires each Member and congressional employee who undertakes official foreign travel to: (1) take necessary actions to reduce travel costs, and (2) return any per diem remaining unexpended at conclusion of the travel.
Community Mental Health and Addiction Safety Net Equity Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to replace community mental health centers with federally qualified behavioral health centers which treat substance abuse in addition to mental illness and other conditions. Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to extend Medicaid coverage to federally qualified behavioral health center services. Directs the Institute of Medicine to: (1) evaluate for Congress the combined paperwork burden of federally qualified behavioral health centers. And (2) analyze and report to Congress on the compensation structure of professional and paraprofessional personnel employed by federally qualified behavioral health centers nationwide as compared with the compensation structure of comparable health safety net providers and relevant private sector health care employers.
Software Trade Secrets Protection Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to prohibit the issuance or enforcement of any summons to produce or examine any computer software source code or related customer communications and training materials, subject to stated exceptions.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide a partial exclusion of dividends or interest received by an individual.
Amends title IX of the Social Security Act (SSA) to modify the ceiling on the Federal Unemployment Account. Provides for special distributions of funds to the States under SSA title IX. Directs the Secretary of Labor to reserve specified amounts for grants to States to assist in implementing alternative base periods for determining the eligibility of claimants for unemployment compensation. Requires States to achieve or make substantial progress toward achieving certain solvency targets for their unemployment compensation accounts. Directs the Secretary to transfer to other States' accounts the amount that would otherwise be transferred to the account of a State that violates such requirement under SSA title IX. Revises SSA title IX requirements for distribution to States of certain excess amounts in the Employment Security Administration Account as of the close of FY 2002. Amends the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act to extend the self-employment assistance program. Amends the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) under the Internal Revenue Code to set forth requirements for treatment of short-time compensation programs.
State Health Care Flexibility Act of 2011 - Authorizes a state to opt out of the application of certain provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) with respect to health insurance coverage within the state by: (1) enacting a law that expresses the intent of the state to opt out of any or all of such provisions, lists such provisions, and expresses the intent of the state to continue to administer health care coverage-related laws as in effect in the state on March 22, 2010, or provides for the implementation of related state laws enacted after such date. And (2) notifying the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Secretary of the Treasury that such a state law was enacted. Includes among PPACA provisions that may be made inapplicable within a state provisions related to health coverage, essential health benefits, health insurance exchanges, alternative health plans established by states, individual and employer health coverage requirements, interoperable protocols for enrollment in federal and state health and human service programs, and expansion of Medicaid coverage.
Bring Jobs Back to America: Strategic Manufacturing Job Repatriation Act - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to create a comprehensive national manufacturing strategy to increase overall domestic production, create private sector jobs, and identify emerging technologies to strengthen American competitiveness and comparative advantages. Requires the Secretary to: (1) identify US firms maintaining facilities and jobs outside the United States. And (2) establish multiple Repatriation Task Forces to promote repatriation in accordance with established targets for job repatriation and manufacturing growth. Establishes the American Economic Security Commission to study and report to Congress on policy relating to American competitiveness and technology-based planning to bolster it. Directs the Secretary, in conjunction with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, to study and report to Congress on the impact and feasibility of a tax incentive to encourage firms to repatriate jobs back to the United States. Amends federal patent law to revise requirements regarding the publication of patent applications. Requires abstracts included with patent applications to be published 18 months after the earliest filing date of the application. Repeals certain requirements relating to: (1) submission of a redacted copy of an application. And (2) procedures to prevent protest and pre-issuance opposition to the grant of a patent. Requires the Director of the US Patent and Trademark Office to give priority to the examination of a patent application by an institution of higher education or a patent holding company affiliated with such an institution.
Handgun Control Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal criminal code to make it unlawful to import, manufacture, sell, buy, transfer, receive, or transport any handgun. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to exempt from such prohibition such activities involving handguns by licensed importers, manufacturers, or dealers or licensed pistol clubs as required for the operation of such clubs, for the use of Federal or State agencies, or for curio, museum, or collection purposes. Sets forth requirements for the licensing of pistol clubs. Prescribes civil and criminal penalties for violation of licensing and recordkeeping requirements. Authorizes voluntary delivery of handguns to Federal, State, or local law enforcement agencies and provides for compensation to persons who establish proof of lawful acquisition and ownership. Authorizes appropriations.
Makes creditable for civil service retirement purposes pre-1977 service performed by a US citizen with Air America, Incorporated, Air Asia Company Limited, or the Pacific Division of Southern Air Transport, Incorporated, while those entities were owned or controlled by the US Government and operated or managed by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
Primary Care Workforce Access Improvement Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to conduct a pilot project under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to test models for providing payment for direct graduate medical education (GME) and indirect medical education (IME) to medical education entities (MEEs), not otherwise eligible to receive such payments, for the costs of training primary care residents. Requires testing of two of the following model MEEs: (1) a community-based independent corporate entity collaborating with two or more hospitals to operate one or more primary care graduate medical residency training programs. (2) a MEE, with at least one community representative on its board, which is established by two or more training hospitals which may be the sole corporate members of the MEE. (3) a hospital subsidiary or independent corporation, with community participation in its governance, that operates one or more training programs for a hospital. Or (4) a MEE independent of any hospital but collaborating with one in operating one or more primary care graduate medical residency training programs.
Death Gratuity Equity Act of 2016 This bill requires federal agencies to pay a death gratuity of $100,000 per employee for the death of civilian employees resulting from injuries sustained in the line of duty that did not result from natural causes or the employee's serious and willful misconduct. The bill also allows an additional payment of up to $8,800 for funeral and burial expenses. The amounts must be adjusted annually for inflation. For tax purposes, a death gratuity payment shall not be considered gross income to the person receiving payment. The death gratuity remains at $100,000 for an employee who dies of injuries incurred in connection with service with an Armed Force in a contingency operation, except that employees who are noncitizens and nonresidents of the United States or Canada, and their dependents, are subject to the Department of Labor's authority to modify payments that are substantially disproportionate to compensation for disability or death payable in similar cases under local laws or customs at the place outside the continental United States or Canada where the employee is working at the time of injury. The bill also allows such death gratuities in connection with such Armed Force service to be paid in addition to any other amounts paid under US law based on the same death. The Foreign Service Act of 1980 is amended to make death gratuities payable to the surviving beneficiaries of US Foreign Service employees, or individuals in a special category serving in an uncompensated capacity for that agency in support of a diplomatic mission, who die as a result of injuries sustained in the performance of duty abroad. But the Foreign Service death gratuity is reduced by the amount of any federal civilian employee death gratuity paid under this bill for the same death. Additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated for death gratuity payments under this bill if an agency and the Office of Management and Budget determine that a natural disaster, act of terrorism, or other incident results in the inability of the agency to meet these death gratuity payment requirements. An authorized payment that exceeds the amount available to the agency without additional appropriations may be made only if Congress makes the additional appropriations for that purpose.
Homebuyer Tax Credit Improvement Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the first-time homebuyer tax credit, to: (1) deny such credit to taxpayers under the age of 18. (2) require a taxpayer claiming such credit to attach to their returns a properly executed copy of the settlement statement used to purchase their residence. And (3) prohibit a credit for residences acquired from a spouse. Requires tax return preparers to file tax returns electronically unless they reasonably expect to file 100 or fewer individual income returns in a calendar year.
Essential Access Community Hospital (EACH) Amendments of 1993 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to make miscellaneous and technical changes with respect to Medicare's Essential Access Community Hospital Program and other Medicare provisions, including those relating to Medicare part A deductibles and co-payments. Authorizes appropriations.
Opioids and STOP Pain Initiative Act This bill establishes and provides funds for the Opioids and STOP Pain Initiative at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to support pain-related research, including: understanding pain, therapies for chronic pain, and alternatives to opioids for pain treatment as directed in the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016. Improving options and evidence for medication-assisted treatment and opioid overdose reversal treatments. And supporting the Federal Pain Research Strategy. NIH must establish the Pain Therapy Screening Program to award grants to support the development of new pre-clinical models for pain disorders, and the application of these models in drug, device, or other therapy screening.
Autofill Act of 2015 Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require the Department of the Treasury to: (1) establish a program to allow taxpayers to download income tax forms that are populated with tax return information previously reported to Treasury for the taxable year, (2) establish standards by October 31, 2015,nbsp, for data download to tax preparation software. And (3) provide, not later than February 15, 2016, and annually thereafter,nbsp. On the website of Treasury a secure function that allows a taxpayer to download, as both a printable document file and in a form suitable for input to automatic tax preparation software, the 1040, 1040A, and 1040EZ forms that are populated with tax return information previously reported to Treasury. Establishes deadlines for reporting tax return information to Treasury and for making such information available for populating tax returns.
Authorizes the President to conclude an agreement with Mexico to establish a binational commission to be known as the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission. Declares that it should be the duty of the Commission to: (1) conduct a needs assessment in the US-Mexican border area to identify and resolve health problems that affect the general population of the area. (2) coordinate public and private entities to educate the population about, and resolve, such health problems and develop programs to meet needs that are not being met by such persons. And (3) formulate recommendations for a fair method by which the government of one country would reimburse a public or private entity in the other country for the cost of a health care service furnished to a citizen of the first country who is unable to pay for the service.
Employers Financial Literacy Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow small business taxpayers a tax credit for up to 35 of the costs of providing continuing financial education to their employees. Grants a preference to such small businesses in the awarding of federal contracts or assistance.
Biometric Enhancement for Airport-Risk Reduction Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (Transportation Security Administration (TSA)), to: (1) study and report to Congress on how airports can transition to uniform, standards-based, and interoperable biometric identifier systems for airport workers with unescorted access to secure or sterile areas of an airport. And (2) conduct a risk-based analysis of selected Category X and I airports and other airports to identify where implementation of such systems could benefit them. Defines biometric identifier system as a system that uses biometric identifier information to match and confirm identity of individuals for purposes of transportation security. Requires the Secretary to convene a working group to assist with issues pertaining to implementing this Act.
Opioid Addiction Treatment Modernization Act This bill amends the Controlled Substances Act to require a practitioner who administers or dispenses narcotic drugs for maintenance or detoxification treatment in an opioid treatment program to complete training every two years. The legislation revises the waiver requirements for a physician who wants to administer, dispense, or prescribe narcotic drugs for maintenance or detoxification treatment in an office-based opioid treatment program. Currently, such physician must notify the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and certify that he or she is a qualifying physician, has the capacity to refer patients for appropriate counseling and ancillary services, and will comply with a patient limit. This bill requires a physician to also certify that he or she maintains a diversion control plan and has the capacity to provide directly or by referral all drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of opioid addiction. The bill modifies the definition of a qualifying physician. Currently, a qualifying physician must be licensed in a state and have expertise . This legislation requires a qualifying physician to also complete training every two years and obtain written consent from each patient regarding available treatment options. nbsp. It permits HHS or the Department of Justice to inspect registered practitioners who dispense narcotics to ensure compliance with the requirements of this Act. All practitioners who are permitted to dispense narcotic drugs to individuals for maintenance treatment or detoxification treatment must submit to HHS a certification of compliance with the requirements of this Act. The Government Accountability Office must review opioid addition treatment services in the United States and report findings to Congress every five years.
Volunteer Firefighter and EMS Support Act of 2008 - Amends the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a program to provide funds to a state or local government, nonprofit firefighter association, or governmental or nongovernmental emergency medical services (EMS) organization, that carries out a volunteer firefighter incentive program in accordance with this Act. Directs the Secretary, for each fiscal year in which a state or local government, nonprofit firefighter association, or governmental or nongovernmental EMS organization carries out a volunteer firefighter incentive program, to pay such government, association, or organization (organization), out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated for such fiscal year, a sum equal to the total expenditures of funds not received from the federal government made by such organization for that fiscal year to carry out the program. Declares that this constitutes budget authority in advance of appropriations Acts and represents the obligation of the federal government to provide payment to a state or local government, nonprofit firefighter association, or governmental or nongovernmental EMS organization any amount so provided. Requires reports from recipients, and from the Secretary annually, to Congress.
Political Broadcasting Access Act of 1993 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require each licensee for a broadcasting station to make available annually free broadcast time for political advertising. Provides standards for time allotment, including total time to be allotted, the length of each unit of such free time, and the hours of the day and the time of the year in which such free time must be allowed. Requires national political parties meeting certain minimum qualifying standards to be treated equally for purposes of such allotment. Provides that nothing in this Act shall restrict a candidate's or party's right to purchase other broadcast time on such station. Requires a cable operator to make available annually free cable time for political advertising under similar requirements. Prohibits the renewal of a franchise of any cable operator that fails to comply with such requirements.
Secure Miles with All Resources and Technology Act This bill amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to direct the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to deploy the most practical and effective technology available to achieve situational awareness and operational control along the US border. DHS shall submit to Congress a comprehensive southern border strategy, which shall include: (1) a list of known physical barriers, technologies, tools, and other devices to achieve situational awareness and operational control of the border and their related cost estimates. And (2) information from federal, state, local, and private sources. DHS shall begin eradicating the carrizo cane plant and salt cedar along the Rio Grande River. The Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended to establish Operation Stonegarden in DHS to provide border security grants to law enforcement agencies: (1) in a state bordering Canada or Mexico or a maritime border state or territory, and (2) involved in an ongoing US Customs and Border Protection operation coordinated through a sector office. DHS shall establish a two-year grant program to improve emergency communications in the southern border region for individuals who: (1) reside or work in a southern border state, and (2) are at greater risk of violence due to border proximity and a lack of residential or business cellular and LTE network service. Such grants may be used to purchase satellite telephone communications systems and services that provide access to 9-1-1 service and that are equipped with Global Positioning System receivers.
Superfund Site Public Health Improvement Act - Amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to include US Government facilities on the National Priorities List (NPL) among those requiring a health assessment by the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR). Requires all health assessments to be commenced as soon as practicable after proposal for inclusion on the NPL and to be completed no later than the date of issuance of a remedial investigation and feasibility study. Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the ATSDR Administrator to develop strategies to obtain characterization data for use in health assessments. Requires the EPA Administrator to provide data sufficiently prior to initiation of remedial actions to allow ATSDR to complete its assessments and requires the ATSDR Administrator, where appropriate, to provide EPA as soon as practicable after site discovery with recommendations for sampling environmental media for hazardous substances of public health concern. Directs the ATSDR Administrator to improve community involvement in health assessments by: (1) collecting data from residents of affected communities and other sources in communities affected or potentially affected by hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants. And (2) designing assessments that take into account the needs and conditions of the community and permitting affected communities to play an active and early role in reviewing assessment designs. Directs the ATSDR Administrator to include other appropriate information as a basis for conducting human health studies of exposure or other health effects in order to determine whether to conduct full-scale epidemiological or other health studies of the exposed population. Revises provisions regarding distribution by ATSDR of educational materials concerning hazardous substance exposure to health professionals and medical centers to: (1) include nursing institutions and nurses as recipients of such materials, (2) add materials on methods of prevention. And (3) require distribution to the general public and at-risk populations of such materials and other information. Authorizes the ATSDR Administrator, in addition to using cooperative agreements, to carry out activities through grants to or contracts with States and political subdivisions, other public authorities, institutions, colleges, universities, and professional associations, giving consideration to historically black colleges and other educational institutions that primarily serve minorities or represent the interests of affected communities. Authorizes assistance, when a health assessment is conducted at a facility on the NPL or a release is being evaluated for inclusion on such list, to public and nonprofit entities, individuals, and community-based groups that may be affected by the release or threatened release. Authorizes and directs the provision of health services to affected communities. Requires the President to add to the review at least every five years of remedial actions that result in a site remaining contaminated a review of public health recommendations and decisions resulting from ATSDR activities.
Protecting Domestic Violence and Stalking Victims Act Amends federal firearms provisions to expand the definition of: (1) quot, intimate partnerquot, to include a dating partner or former dating partner, and (2) quot, misdemeanor crime of domestic violencequot. To include a misdemeanor offense that has, as an element, the use or attempted use of force, or the threatened use of a deadly weapon by a dating partner or former dating partner against the victim. Prohibits the sale or other disposition of a firearm or ammunition to, or the possession or receipt of a firearm by, a person who: (1) is subject to a court order, or an ex parte order, that restrains such person from harassing, stalking, threatening, or engaging in other conduct that would put an individual in reasonable fear of bodily injury, including an order issued at the request of an employer on behalf of its employee or at the request of an institution of higher education on behalf of its student, or from intimidating or dissuading a witness from testifying in court. Or (2) has been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of stalking under federal, state, territorial, or tribal law or of a crime that involves conduct that would be proscribed by prohibitions against stalking if committed within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States.
Healthy America Commission Act of 2003 - Establishes the Healthy America Commission to study and report on the societal costs of preventable disease, including: (1) costs to the Federal government and health care system, (2) incentives for behavioral change. And (3) a cost-benefit analysis for a broad series of disease prevention initiatives.
Directs the Secretary to prescribe uniform guidelines for conducting county and area committee elections. Provides for the conversion of permanent and temporary county committee employees to Federal civil service status. Title II: Improved Program Equity - Amends the Food Security Act of 1985 respecting the environmental quality incentives program to: (1) increase program funding, (2) reduce the livestock set-aside. And (3) give priority to, establish set-asides, and waive cost-share requirements for socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers. Amends the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977 to make permanent appropriations for 1890 land grant college grants. Amends the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 to make permanent appropriations for: (1) outreach and technical assistance programs for socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers. And (2) Indian reservation extension education programs. Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to make permanent appropriations for farm operating and ownership loans.
Authorizing the Regulation of Swaps Act - Amends the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000, and the Commodity Exchange Act to repeal prohibitions against regulation of credit default swaps and other swap agreements, whether traded on an exchange or over-the-counter, including commodity, equity, foreign currency, and interest rate swaps. Authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), and specified other federal financial regulators to: (1) exercise oversight over any swap agreement entered into, purchased, or sold by any financial institution, entity, or person , and any swap agreement, that is subject to the regulator's jurisdiction. And (2) promulgate, interpret, and enforce regulations, issue orders of general applicability, and impose disclosure, reporting, or recordkeeping requirements relating to any such swap agreement. Grants the SEC sole oversight authority over: (1) any exchange or clearing agency. And (2) any swap agreement traded on or cleared through such exchange or clearing agency. Grants the CFTC sole oversight authority over: (1) any trading facility or registered entity. And (2) any swap agreement executed on, traded on, or cleared through such trading facility or registered entity.
Mortgage E-Verify Act of 2010 - Amends the Federal National Mortgage Association Charter Act and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act to require the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act to confirm the identity and work eligibility of the mortgagor as a prerequisite to: (1) any refinancing, restructuring, or modification agreement governing a single-family housing mortgage that is held by, or that backs any security issued by, either Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Or (2) any purchase of, or issuance of any security that is backed by, any single-family housing mortgage made for the refinancing, restructuring, or modification of the mortgagor's previous single-family housing mortgage on the same property. Identifies the required inquiry as one made through the basic pilot E-Verify program under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Amends the National Housing Act to require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to use the E-Verify program to confirm the identity and work eligibility of the mortgagor as a prerequisite to single-family housing mortgage insurance issued under the Act.
Misclassification of Employees Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for the waiver of employment tax liability for employers for any period if: (1) the employer did not treat an individual as an employee for purposes of employment taxes. (2) the treatment of such individual was based on a reasonable good faith misapplication of the common law rules used for determining the employer-employee relationship. (3) Federal tax returns for such period were filed on a basis consistent with the treatment of such individual as not being an employee. (4) the employer did not treat any other individual holding a substantially similar position as an employee for employment tax purposes after December 31, 1977. And (5) the employer enters into a closing agreement with, and monitored by, the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to treating such individual as an employee. Amends the Revenue Act of 1978 to require an employer to have a reasonable basis for not treating an individual as an employee. Requires the use of a recent prior audit as a reasonable basis. Excludes certain skilled technical personnel from such tax treatment. Removes the prohibition against regulations and rulings on employment status. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to set forth additional information to be included on statements covering payments for services. Provides for the determination of whether an individual is an employee of another person for purposes of unemployment compensation.
Service Members Student Loan Relief Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow members of the Armed Forces and National Guard to defer payments of principal on their Federal Family Education Loans, William D. Ford Federal Direct Loans, and Federal Perkins Loans for the period beginning on the date they receive a call or order to duty in connection with a war, military operation, or national emergency and ending on their first day of service. Allows individuals whose call to duty is cancelled before their first day of service: (1) due to a service training injury, to defer payments of principal on those loans through what would have been their period of service. And (2) for a reason other than a service training injury, to defer payments of principal on those loans for 14 days after that cancellation.
Amends the Agricultural Act of 1949 to terminate the tobacco price support program. Amends the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 to terminate the tobacco marketing quota program. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to disallow the deduction for certain advertising expenses for tobacco products. Establishes in the Treasury the Anti-Tobacco Use Trust Fund. Establishes in the Fund: (1) the Anti-Drugs in Schools Account. And (2) the Anti-Tobacco Use Advertising Account. Transfers to the Fund and the Accounts specified revenues resulting from the tobacco advertising deduction disallowance. Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish a public education program about the health risks of tobacco products.
Children's Act for Responsible Employment of 2001 - CARE Act - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to repeal certain exemptions from child labor prohibitions for agricultural employment. Applies the same age restrictions to agricultural employment as to other forms of employment. Limits exemptions to agricultural labor outside of school hours, if the individual is employed by a specified family member on the member's farm. Raises from 16 to 18 years old the minimum age for engaging in hazardous agricultural employment. Increases civil and criminal penalties for child labor violations. Directs the Secretary of Labor and the Director of the Bureau of the Census to compile data biannually from State employment security agencies and from other sources in all the States concerning: (1) the types of industries and occupations in which children under the age of 18 are employed. And (2) cases in which children were employed in violation of Federal child labor prohibitions. Requires each employer to report to the State employment security agency on any injury to an employee under age 18 that results in lost employment time or any illness such individual incurred while at work. Directs the Secretary to establish closer working relationships with non-governmental organizations and with State and local government agencies having responsibility for administering and enforcing labor and safety and health laws. Requires State and local government agencies to inform the Secretary, upon request, about employee injuries and deaths.
Partial Hospitalization Services Integrity Act of 1997 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) deny coverage of partial hospitalization services in home and skilled nursing home settings. (2) provide for new qualifications for community mental health centers as the Secretary of Health and Human Services may specify to ensure the health and safety of individuals being furnished mental health services and the effective or efficient furnishing of such services. And (3) authorize the Secretary to establish by regulation a prospective payment system for partial hospitalization services provided by a community mental health center or hospital to its outpatients. Directs the Secretary to: (1) provide for periodic re-certification to ensure that the provision of such services complies with appropriate criteria under the Public Health Service Act. And (2) implement a demonstration project under Medicare part B under which community mental health centers may offer expanded partial hospitalization services which are not currently covered as such under Medicare for purposes of providing for a full continuum of ambulatory behavioral health care services.
Value-Added Development Act for American Agriculture - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to make grants to eligible applicants for an agricultural innovation center demonstration program to assist value-added agricultural businesses. Authorizes up to ten initial grants. Sets forth permitted fund uses.
Protecting Dissenting Viewpoints and Voices Act of 2017 This bill amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) from using the viewpoints that a person broadcasts or otherwise disseminates on issues of public importance as a basis for: (1) revoking the person's licenses or authorizations, (2) taking action against the person. Or (3) placing conditions on the FCC's approval of the assignment or transfer of a station license or construction permit or the construction, extension, acquisition, operation, or discontinuation of a communications line. The bill also prohibits the President from directing an agency to take actions against a person, or to condition agency approvals, based on a person's broadcasted or disseminated viewpoints. Nothing in this bill affects the authority of the FCC or the President to take action against violations concerning the broadcast of: (1) obscene or indecent language, fraudulent schemes, or lottery information. Or (2) content constituting incitement under the First Amendment. The FCC may continue to enforce broadcast requirements that: (1) permit candidates to federal elective office to purchase reasonable broadcast time, (2) allow equal broadcast opportunities for all candidates for public office, and (3) require disclosures of paid broadcasts. The President may continue to direct agencies to take actions to execute the President's legal duties.
National MS and Parkinson's Disease Registries Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) , acting through the Director of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, to: (1) develop a system to collect data on multiple sclerosis (MS) and a system to collect data on Parkinson's disease. (2) establish a national surveillance system for the collection and storage of data for each such disease, including population-based registries of US cases of MS and Parkinson's disease. (3) provide analysis regarding expansion of national disease surveillance systems for other neurological diseases and disorders. And (4) establish the Advisory Committee on Neurological Disease Registries. Allows the Secretary, acting through the Director, to provide for the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on MS and Parkinson's disease. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director, to: (1) identify, build upon, expand, and coordinate existing data and surveillance systems, surveys, registries, and other federal public health and environmental infrastructure wherever possible. And (2) provide for research access to Parkinson's disease and MS data. Requires the Secretary to ensure that epidemiological and other types of information collected are made available to agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and the Department of Defense (DOD).
Media Violence Labeling Act of 1999 - Amends the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act to state that it is the policy of Congress to provide for the establishment, use, and enforcement of a consistent and comprehensive system for labeling violent content in audio and visual media products, including with regard to the appropriateness of such products for minors. Authorizes manufacturers and producers of interactive video game products and services, video program products, motion picture products, and sound recording products (products) to submit to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) a joint proposal for a system for labeling the violent content of such products. Outlines labeling system requirements, including that: (1) such product shall specify a minimum age for purchase and viewing. And (2) the label should appear conspicuously on the product. Requires the FTC to review any proposal that is submitted by such manufacturers and producers within 180 days after the enactment of this Act to determine if it meets such requirements. Requires the FTC to issue a labeling system within 180 days after commencing a review of such proposal. Directs the FTC to establish its own labeling system if a proposal is not submitted. Prohibits a person from manufacturing or producing such a product unless it bears a label meeting requirements of this Act. Prohibits a person, from the same date, from selling such product to an individual whose age is less than the minimum age specified under the labeling system. Empowers the FTC to investigate allegations of violations of this Act. Provides civil penalties for violations. Renames the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act as the Federal Cigarette and Media Violence Labeling and Advertising Act.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow businesses an investment tax credit for costs incurred for noise modification of aircraft from stage 2 levels to stage 3 levels. Allows such credit against the regular tax and alternative minimum tax.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Flat Tax Title II: Reductions in Federal Spending Flat Tax Act of 1995 - Title I: Flat Tax - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a 15 percent tax on the income of every individual. Establishes a basic standard exemption of $20,000 for a joint return and $10,000 for an individual return, with an additional $5,000 exemption for each dependent. Sets forth provisions for a transition rule for home mortgage interest deduction with respect to existing mortgages. Imposes on every person engaged in a business activity a tax equal to 15 percent of business taxable income. Repeals all specific exclusions from gross income, all deductions, and all credits against income tax to the extent related to the computation of corporate and individual income tax liability. Repeals estate, gift, and generation-skipping taxes. Title II: Reductions in Federal Spending - Directs the President to reduce the discretionary spending limits the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 for each of FY 1996 through 1998 to reflect a reduction of 15 percent in budget authority and budget outlays for each fiscal year. Specifies that notwithstanding the above, the amount of budget authority provided for foreign aid payments not required by law shall not exceed: (1) for FY 1996, 60 percent of the amount provided for FY 1995. (2) for FY 1997, 50 percent of the amount provided for FY 1995. And (3) for FY 1998, 40 percent of the amount provided for FY year 1995. Requires that notwithstanding discretionary spending limits above, the amount of budgetary authority provided for the Defense Department for payments not required by law for each of FY 1996 through 1998 shall not exceed the amount provided for FY 1995. Directs that the amount of budget authority provided for the administrative expenses of the Social Security Administration and Medicare for payments not required by law for each of FY 1996 through 1998 shall not be reduced. Provides that a reduction in the level of direct spending for FY 1996 through 1998 shall not exceed 85 percent of the level for FY 1995, except for: (1) Social Security, (2) Medicare. And (3) veterans's programs. Abolishes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and transfers the functions of the IRS to the Department of the Treasury. Transfers the functions of the IRS Commissioner to the Secretary of the Treasury.
In-Home Caregiver Assessment Resources and Education Act or the In-Home CARE Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Administration for Community Living to award grants to carry out home visiting programs for unpaid caregivers. The Department of Health and Human Services must coordinate with the National Family Caregiver Support Program, the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and others on this grant program. Grantees must provide: caregiver education and training regarding medication management, food preparation, falls prevention, and other subjects. Services or referrals for services related to home care, such as transportation, home modification, or respite care. And an assessment and referral for physical and mental health services for the caregiver or person receiving care from the caregiver.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow: (1) a tax deduction from gross income for insurance premiums for high deductible health plans. And (2) a tax credit for certain employment taxes related to premiums for high deductible health plans and contributions to health savings accounts.
Securing Tomorrow by Saving Today Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow an exclusion from gross income of interest earned on deposits with certain financial institutions. (2) allow increased contributions, including catch-up contributions, to retirement plans in 2009, 2010, and 2011. And (3) suspend minimum distribution requirements from tax-deferred pension plans and individual retirement accounts between 2008 and 2013.
Lavender Offense Victim Exoneration Act of 2017 ornbsp. The LOVE Act of 2017 This bill requires the Department of State to review employee terminations at the State Department in the 1950s and 1960s to determine who was wrongfully terminated due to their actual or perceived sexual orientation . The bill contains an apology from Congress for its role in encouraging the termination of State Department employees based on sexual orientation. The State Department is required to: createnbsp. A reconciliation board to change the employment records of those affected, to receive oral testimony of those affected, and to allow former employees to bring a grievance if they believe their termination was due to their sexual orientation. Create an advancement board to address employment issues of current LGBTQI Foreign Officers. Establish a permanent exhibit about the terminations in the State Department's USnbsp, Diplomacy Center. Report to Congress about countries refusing to issue visas to spouses of Foreign Service personnel because ofnbsp, nbsp, their sexual orientation.
Counter Terrorism Financing Coordination Act - Directs The Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury to negotiate and enter into a Memorandum of Agreement specifying each Department's role in providing foreign counterterrorism financing training and technical assistance. Requires such Agreement to include provisions respecting: (1) leadership and role designations, (2) dispute resolution methodology, (3) funding and resource coordination, (4) private contractor determinations. And (5) performance evaluation criteria. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to include in the annual congressional report on terrorist assets information on the nature and extent of activities to block the financial asset access of owners or account holders with terrorism connections.
Defend America Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 - Amends Federal law to direct the Secretary of Defense to carry out a research and development program to enhance US capabilities relating to the threat of an attack inside the United States by unconventional means involving weapons of mass destruction. Specifies that the activities to be carried out by the Secretary under the program shall include: (1) research, development, test, and evaluation of technologies relating to detection of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons, interception of and protection against such weapons, assistance to other Federal departments and agencies and State and local agencies in responding to an attack, including casualty treatment, and decontamination of areas affected by an attack, (2) training of personnel for such activities. And (3) identification of Federal equipment and technologies that can be transferred, and training that can be provided, from one Federal agency to another or to State and local agencies consistent with the purposes of the program. Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to authorize Federal technical assistance to the States in developing comprehensive plans and practicable programs for preparation against major disasters involving weapons of mass destruction. Sets forth reporting requirements.
Close the Revolving Door Act of 2010 - Amends the federal criminal code to impose a permanent ban on lobbying contacts by any former Member of Congress or elected officer of the Senate or the House of Representatives with any Member, officer, or employee of either house of Congress or any employee of any other legislative office. Provides for a six-year lobbying ban on former congressional staff. Amends the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 to: (1) require the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives to maintain a joint Internet website for the disclosure of lobbying activity called lobbyist. gov. (2) require a substantial lobbying entity to file annually with the Secretary and Clerk a list of any employee or contractor who is a former Member of Congress or congressional staff person who made at least $100,000 in any one year, who worked for a total of four years or more in that capacity, or who had a job title that contained the terms Chief of Staff, Legislative or Staff Director, Counsel, Professional Staff Member, Communications Director, or Press Secretary. (3) require the Secretary and the Clerk to provide a copy of the filings of substantial lobbying entities to the US Attorney for the District of Columbia. And (4) increase from $200,000 to $500,000 the civil penalty for intentional failure to correct a defective filing of lobbying activity. Prohibits any person who is a registered lobbyist or an agent of a foreign principal, within six years after leaving such position, from being hired by a Member or committee of either house of Congress with whom that lobbyist or agent has had substantial lobbying contact, subject to a waiver based on a compelling national need. Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit: (1) a political committee from making any expenditure or reimbursement for noncommercial air travel by a candidate for federal office. And (2) a lobbyist from making any contribution of US or foreign currency to or for the benefit of any candidate for federal office.
Partnering to Detect and Defeat Tunnels Act This bill expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) it is in the best interests of the United States to develop technology to detect and counter tunnels, and the best way to do this is to partner with other affected countries. And (2) Israel is facing serious threats posed by tunnels and should be the first US partner in addressing this challenge. The Secretary of Defense: (1) shall seek to enter into an agreement with Israel to partner in developing and deploying technologies to detect and counter tunnels, (2) may seek to enter into similar agreements with US allies, and (3) shall report to Congress annually through 2020.
Requires the Secretary to erect a suitable marker designating theFuture Site of the Ronald Reagan Memorial which shall be maintained at the location until the memorial is open to the public. Establishes the Ronald Reagan Memorial Commission to: (1) raise necessary funds from appropriate private sector sources to design, construct, and maintain the memorial. (2) determine and recommend to Congress a permanent location for the memorial, (3) select a design for the memorial. And (4) report to Congress and the President on a recommended location and final design for the memorial no later than February 6, 2002.
Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out a program of job training in skills relevant to the job market for discharged veterans who are either currently not paid at more than 150 of the federal minimum wage, or: (1) had a military occupational specialty of limited transferability to the civilian job market. (2) are not otherwise eligible for veterans' education or training services. (3) have not acquired a marketable skill since leaving military service, (4) were discharged under conditions not less than honorable. And (5) have been unemployed for at least 90 of the previous 180 days. Designates the program as the MOST Program. Directs the Secretary to contract with employers to provide on-the-job training or apprenticeship programs for such veterans. Limits payments under the program to $20,000 per veteran and 24 months in duration.
Establishes the Trade Agreement Enforcement Commission to oversee enforcement of worker rights provisions in: (1) trade agreements between the United States and other countries, and (2) trade preference programs.
Long Island Sound Protection Act - Amends the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 to revise requirements for the dumping of dredged material in Long Island Sound. Prohibits dredged material from any Federal or non-Federal dredging project from being dumped, or transported for the purpose of being dumped, into Long Island Sound, Fisher's Island Sound, Block Island Sound, or Peconic Bay until the dredged material is determined by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) have, or to cause, concentrations of chemical constituents that are not greater than those concentrations present in the water column, sediments, and biota of areas proximate to, but unaffected by, the proposed disposal site. And (2) meet certain Federal dumping requirements. Prohibits dumping or transportation for dumping into any covered body of water, except at a site designated by the Administrator, and upon a determination that no feasible alternative to ocean disposal is available prior to the time of designation. Requires the Secretary of the Army and the Administrator, before designation of a dredged material disposal site in a covered body of water, to develop a dredged material management plan and to submit it to Congress and to the Governors of the States of Connecticut and New York for their approval.
University Transit Rider Innovation Program Act of 2015 or the UTRIP Act This bill authorizes the Department of Transportation (DOT) to make grants to designated recipients, local or state governmental authorities, private nonprofit organizations, or operators of public transportation services (recipients) to increase the use of public transportation by undergraduate or graduate students attending an institution of higher education . A recipient may use amounts provided under a grant to: offset decreased revenue resulting from providing discounted fares to covered students, provide general operating assistance to public transportation services and routes designed to better serve institutions of higher education, or pay for capital costs associated with expanding and maintaining public transportation services and routes designed to serve such institutions. To be eligible for a grant, a recipient must provide to covered students a discounted fare for public transportation that is: (1) not more than 75 of the fare, and (2) applicable to both monthly and single-ride fares. DOT shall apportion amounts made available to carry out this Act to large urbanized areas, small urbanized areas, and rural areas based on the relative numbers of full-time equivalent covered students in such areas, according to a specified formula, with specified exceptions.
Nuclear Policy and Posture Review Act of 2007 - Directs the President to conduct a nuclear policy review to consider a range of options on the role of nuclear weapons in US security policy. Requires the Secretary of Defense to conduct a comprehensive review of the US nuclear posture to clarify US nuclear deterrence policy and strategy. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President's review should be used as the basis for establishing future US strategic arms control objectives and negotiating positions. Prohibits the appropriation or availability of funds for the Reliable Replacement Warhead Program for FY2008-FY2010 until reports on the above reviews have been submitted to Congress.
Protecting Consumers from Unreasonable Credit Rates Act of 2009 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to prohibit a creditor from extending credit to a consumer under an open end consumer credit plan for which the fee and interest rate exceeds 36. Sets forth criminal penalties for violation of this Act. Empowers state Attorneys General to enforce this Act. Revises requirements for a periodic statement for each billing cycle with respect to where the total finance charge exceeds 50 cents for a monthly or longer billing cycle, or the pro rata part of 50 cents for a billing cycle shorter than monthly. Requires inclusion of the fee and interest rate, displayed as FAIR, instead of the total finance charge expressed as an annual percentage rate (APR).
Charitable Pension Flexibility Act of 2013 - Amends the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended by the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, to allow the sponsor of a multiple-employer defined benefit pension plan to elect for a plan to cease to be treated as an eligible charity plan for plan years beginning after December 31, 2013. Permits revocation of such an election, however, only with the consent of the Secretary of the Treasury. Allows a plan sponsor also to elect to apply specified requirements with respect to the shortfall amortization base in minimum funding standards for such plans.
Residential and Commuter Toll Fairness Act of 2009 - Grants state, county, and municipal governments, as well as multi-jurisdictional transportation authorities that operate or manage roads, bridges, railroads, buses, ferries, or other transportation systems, rulemaking authority to establish toll, user fee, or fare discount programs for their local residents or commuters.
Over-Classification Reduction Act - Requires the Archivist of the United States to promulgate regulations to prevent the over-classification of information. Requires the Inspector General of each federal agency that employs an individual with original or derivative classification authority to randomly audit classified information from each agency component with employees that have classification authority. Directs the Archivist: (1) to require, at the time of classification of information, personal identifiers or unique agency identifiers of the individual applying classification markings, including the individual's agency, office, and position, to appear on the information. (2) when implementing the security education and training program pursuant to specified executive orders, to integrate training about the prevention of over-classification of information, the proper use of classification markings, the consequences of over-classification, and the lessons learned from implementation of the regulations. And (3) to implement a detailee program to detail federal agency personnel, on a nonreimbursable basis, to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for training.
FBI Counterintelligence Act of 1994 - Amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to require a consumer reporting agency (agency) to furnish to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) the names and addresses of all financial institutions at which a consumer maintains or has maintained an account, to the extent that such information is in the agency's files, when presented with a written request signed by the Director of the FBI which certifies compliance with this Act. Permits the Director to make such certification only upon determining in writing that: (1) such information is necessary for the conduct of an authorized foreign counterintelligence investigation. And (2) there are specific and articulable facts giving reason to believe that the consumer is a foreign power or an official of a foreign power or an agent of a foreign power engaging in international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities involving a violation of US criminal statutes . Requires an agency to furnish certain identifying information respecting a consumer to the FBI when presented with such a written request. Authorizes a court to issue an order ex parte directing an agency to furnish a consumer report to the FBI if requested in writing by the Director upon a showing in camera that: (1) the consumer report is necessary for the conduct of an authorized foreign counterintelligence investigation. And (2) there are specific and articulable facts giving reason to believe that the consumer whose consumer report is sought is an agent of a foreign power and is engaging or has engaged in international terrorism or clandestine activities. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) confidentiality, (2) payment of fees, (3) limits on dissemination, (4) reporting requirements, (5) damages, (6) disciplinary actions for violations, (7) a good-faith exception, (8) limitation of remedies. And (9) injunctive relief and costs. Terminates this Act five years after its enactment.
Amends the Agricultural Act of 1949 to modify the authority for haying and grazing on wheat and feed grain reduced acreage, including a provision under which producers can elect to lease such acreage back for specified fees.
Helping Empower Low-income Parents (HELP) Scholarships Amendments of 1997 - Amends title VI of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to allow any State that has enacted or will enact a law establishing a voluntary public and private school parental choice scholarship program in compliance with specified ESEA requirements to reserve an additional 15 percent from its annual title IV allotment for use exclusively for such parental choice programs. Requires State educational agencies, except in the case of such programs, to distribute 90 percent of title VI funds to local educational agencies based on criteria which gives priority to low-income families and areas. Includes such parental choice programs among State and local uses of title VI funds. Requires such parental choice programs to be located in an area that has the greatest numbers or percentages of children: (1) living in areas with a high concentration of low-income families, (2) from low-income families. Or (3) living in sparsely populated areas. Requires such programs to ensure that program participation is limited to families whose family income does not exceed 185 percent of the poverty line. Directs the Comptroller General to make contracts for annual evaluation of each parental choice program. Requires the Secretary of Education to reserve certain funds for such evaluations. Provides that title VI funds to establish a parental choice program shall be considered assistance to the student and shall not be considered as assistance to any school that chooses to participate in such program. Prohibits the Secretary from exercising any direction, supervision, or control over curricula, program of instruction, administration, or personnel of any school that chooses to participate in a parental choice program. Provides that, for purposes of Federal tax laws or for determining eligibility for any other Federal program, a parental choice scholarship shall not be treated as income or assistance to the student or parents.
High Performance Schools Act of 2001 - Establishes the High Performance Schools Program, in the Department of Energy, to assist school districts in the production of high performance elementary and secondary school buildings that are healthful, productive, energy efficient, and environmentally sound. Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to make program grants to State energy offices for: (1) program participation promotion and administration. And (2) subgrants to qualified school districts to implement such school building construction and renovation.
Trail of the Ancients National Heritage Area Study Act of 2005 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Four Corners Heritage Council, to conduct a study to assess the feasibility and suitability of designating the Four Corners region comprised of parts of San Juan County, Utah, Montezuma and Dolores Counties, Colorado, Apache and Navajo Counties, Arizona, and San Juan and McKinley Counties, New Mexico, and parts of the reservations of the Ute Mountain Ute, Navajo, and Hopi Tribes in those States as the Trail of the Ancients National Heritage Area.
Clean Water Infrastructure Financing Act of 2005 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to eliminate certain restrictions on capitalization grants to states under the water pollution control revolving fund program and to direct the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to make such grants to accomplish the purposes of the Act. Revises certain requirements for the construction of publicly-owned treatment works under capitalization grant agreements. Directs the Administrator to assist states in establishing simplified procedures for small water systems to obtain assistance under the Act. Requires state water pollution control revolving funds to be used only for providing assistance for activities which have as a principal benefit the improvement or protection of water quality of navigable waters. Makes revisions concerning uses of funds for: (1) innovative technologies, (2) administrative expenses, (3) small system technical, planning, and management assistance, (4) financially distressed communities. And (5) construction assistance. Authorizes states to give priority to financially distressed communities in making loans from revolving funds. Reauthorizes appropriations for FY2006-2010 for the water pollution control revolving fund program.
Federal Employees Health Care Freedom of Choice Act - Amends provisions of Federal law relating to the Federal Employees' Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) to authorize, and in certain circumstances require, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to contract with qualified carriers for a high deductible health plan . Requires that such a plan provide benefits of the types provided by service benefit plans, indemnity benefit plans, or both. Sets forth special contribution requirements applicable to employees or annuitants enrolled in such plans, including mandating certain payments to the medical savings account of each individual so enrolled. Requires OPM to make information available to such individuals regarding the circumstances in which a Government contribution will be made to a medical savings account and the amount of that contribution. Amends Internal Revenue Code medical savings account provisions to modify the definition of eligible individual to add references to high deductible plans provided under the FEHBP. Regulates the medical savings account deduction for FEHBP individuals. Exempts FEHBP individuals from numerical limits on the number of taxpayers having medical savings accounts.
Rebuilding Equity Act of 2013 - Directs the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to each establish a voluntary program for eligible borrowers under which the GSE shall pay $1,000 toward the closing costs associated with applying for and receiving the refinancing when the borrower agrees to refinance into a fully amoritizing loan with a term not longer than 20 years. Prohibits the amount of the closing costs that each GSE pays under the program during the 12 months following enactment of this Act from varying based on the term of the mortgage that the borrower agrees to refinance into. Requires the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, for each of the next two 12-month periods, to: (1) adjust the amount of the portion of the closing costs that each GSE will pay in accordance with specified requirements. Makes eligible for the program borrowers: (1) who qualify for the Home Affordable Refinance Program carried out by the GSEs, (2) whose subject property has a loan-to-value ratio of at least 105, and (3) who refinances from a loan with an original 30-year term to a loan with a term of 20 years or less.
Tobacco Program Administrative Reform Act of 1998 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to: (1) estimate the annual Department of Agriculture tobacco program costs. And (2) assess tobacco importers and product manufacturers based upon cost and market share. Establishes in the Treasury the Tobacco Assessment Fund.
Lending Enhancement Through Necessary Due Process Act - Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to make the following affirmative defenses available to a director, officer, or institution-affiliated party of an insured depository institution facing a civil action before a Federal banking agency or a court of jurisdiction: (1) business judgment, (2) regulatory approval. And (3) unforeseeable economic conditions. Sets forth a minimum standard for the order of production of personal financial information by a regulatory agency or court. Declares the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure relating to prejudgment attachment of assets applicable to Federal banking regulatory agencies. Prohibits the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation from bringing a civil action under State law against an officer or director of an insured depository institution for monetary damages for losses due to a disregard of a duty of care unless the State standard for such duty is as great or greater than the Federal standard.
SIG TARP Small Business Awareness Act of 2009 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to direct the Special Inspector General (SIG) for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to examine how smaller financial institutions are being affected by: (1) expenditures under TARP. (2) the considerations and determinations of the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary) and the regulators of such smaller financial institutions regarding capital adequacy and troubled assets. And (3) the effects that TARP financial assistance has had upon small businesses, including by type and by region. Instructs the SIG to include, in quarterly reports to Congress, information on actions by the Secretary and any financial institutions receiving TARP assistance to include and utilize minorities and women, and minority- and women-owned businesses, in any solicitation or contract. Requires such reports to include information on: (1) the levels of inclusion and utilization of women, minorities, and women- and minority-owned businesses. (2) the type of such contracts or solicitations, their dollar amounts, and the total number of them. And (5) any other activities to increase the participation of women, minorities, and women- and minority-owned businesses, including recommendations.
Medical Savings Account Availability Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code with respect to medical savings accounts to: (1) repeal restrictions on the number of accounts which may be established. And (2) expand the availability of such accounts to individuals other than the self-employed and employees of small employers.
Cocopah Lands Act - Provides that if the Cocopah Indian Tribe of Arizona transfers title to certain described land to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary shall take it into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, if there are no adverse legal claims to it, including outstanding liens, mortgages, or taxes owed. Considers such land to be part of the Tribe's initial reservation. Prohibits its use for gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
Interim Budget Control and Enforcement Act of 2001 - Title I: Amendments to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to increase discretionary spending limits for FY 2002. Requires the President's FY 2003 budget submission to identify emergency-designated funding which was enacted in response to the events of September 11,2001, and is ongoing and recurring in nature. Title II: Adjustments to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2002 - Adjusts figures within the concurrent resolution on the budget for FY 2002 with regard to: (1) total new budget authority, (2) total budget outlays, (3) the surplus, (4) the public debt, (5) net interest. And (6) allowances. Requires the chairmen of the budget committees of each House to: (1) make the necessary conforming changes for FY 2003 through 2011 in each of such areas. And (2) make appropriate adjustments in the allocations to their respective Committees on Appropriations. Title III: Technical Corrections to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 - Makes technical corrections in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Directs the Secretary of Energy to conduct a survey every five years to determine the 10 highest-priority energy-related problems to resolve to ensure the goals of: (1) maximizing US energy security, (2) maximizing improvements in energy efficiency within the United States. And (3) minimizing damage to the domestic economy and the environment. Instructs the Secretary to: (1) report to Congress the survey results, including a list of the 10 highest-priority energy-related problems based on survey responses. And (2) ensure that, during the five year period beginning on the date of receipt of the report, all energy-related research and development activities of the Department of Energy (DOE) are implemented for the purpose of resolving the problems listed. Establishes the Energy Technologies Innovation Network to provide a forum through which interested parties can present, discuss, and collaborate with respect to information and ideas relating to energy technologies. Requires each research facility that receives federal funding to provide to the Network the results of the research conducted using that funding, regardless of whether the research relates to energy.
Green Communities Act of 2009 sic - Directs the Secretary of Commerce, through the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, to make grants to eligible municipalities to carry out community greening initiatives. Defines such an initiative as a program that increases economic development by improving the environment and that may include: (1) revitalizing municipal parks and public spaces, (2) landscaping community gateways and key corridors, (3) tree plantings and urban forestry projects, (4) comprehensive planning for open space preservation, (5) education, training, and volunteer management concerning community green initiatives, (6) green roof construction, (7) green stormwater infrastructure. And (8) vacant lot management. Defines an eligible municipality as a municipality that meets criteria for an economic adjustment grant under the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965. Directs the Secretary to select 80 eligible municipalities to receive grants. Requires an eligible municipality seeking a grant to agree to make available nonfederal funds to carry out the initiative in an amount equal to not less than 50 of the grant awarded. Directs the Secretary to make grants to, or enter into contracts with, five nonprofit organizations to provide technical assistance and training to municipalities receiving grants.
Independent Counsel Accountability and Reform Act of 1996 - Amends the Federal judicial code to require specific information from a credible source sufficient to constitute grounds to investigate whether a person covered by the independent counsel statute has violated specified criminal laws. Authorizes the Attorney General (AG) to issue subpoenas duces tecum in conducting preliminary investigations. Repeals provisions authorizing the AG to make certain determinations during such preliminary investigations. Requires the division of the court that appoints an independent counsel (IC) to: (1) define with specificity the IC's prosecutorial jurisdiction. And (2) assure that the IC has adequate authority to fully investigate and prosecute the alleged violations of criminal law with respect to which the AG has requested the appointment as well as matters directly related to such criminal violations. Requires such court division to award attorney's fees when an individual is acquitted of all charges or no conviction is obtained against such individual, or when a conviction at a trial is overturned on appeal. Requires the Administrator of General Services to provide appropriate administrative support to ICs under the Act, including the provision of adequate office space. Requires an IC to: (1) comply with Department of Justice policies concerning the release of information relating to criminal proceedings. (2) limit office expenditures to a two-year period, unless an appropriations Act specifically makes funds available for such expenditures after the end of such period. (3) follow US Government procedures regarding the treatment of classified information. And (4) refrain from engaging in outside legal work during the period of appointment as an IC. Eliminates certain IC reporting requirements. Revises provisions concerning the removal, termination, and periodic reappointment of an IC. Requires quarterly reports to specified congressional committees on aggregate amounts expended by an IC in the previous quarter. Provides travel expense reimbursements for successive six-month periods during the period of appointment as an IC.
Authorizes appropriations for: (1) the Department of Commerce for FY 2000 for expenses of providing emergency disaster assistance to persons or entities that have incurred losses from a commercial fishery failure due to Hurricane Floyd. And (2) the Federal Emergency Management Agency for FY 2000 for emergency expenses resulting from Hurricane Floyd. Provides that the appropriation of any amount authorized under this Act shall be: (1) designated as emergency spending in accordance with the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and (2) made available on an emergency basis.
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend, through June 30, 1999, the duty on certain drug substances used as HIV antiviral drugs: (1) (S)-N-tert-butyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro- 3-isoquinoline carboxamide, (2) (S)-N-tert-butyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-3- isoquinoline carboxamide hydrochloride salt, (3) (S)-N-tert-butyl- 1,2,3,4- tetrahydro-3-isoquinoline carboxamide sulfate salt, and (4) (3S)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid.
Fairness for Working Americans Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) eliminate the reduction in the percentage of earned income for calculating the refundable portion of the child tax credit for taxable years beginning before 2005. (2) include in earned income for purposes of calculating the refundable portion of the credit otherwise tax excludable combat zone compensation of members of the armed services. And (3) set forth rules for the tax treatment of certain foreign corporations engaging in tax avoidance activities as US domestic corporations.
Citizen Empowerment Act of 2015 Requires any executive agency employee who is conducting an in-person or a telephonic interview, audit, investigation, inspection, or other official interaction with an individual relating to a possible violation of federal law that could result in the imposition of civil or criminal fines or penalties or the collection of unpaid tax to allow such individual to make an audio recording of the interaction. Permits the employee conducting the interaction to record it if the employee: (1) informs the individual of the recording prior to or at the initiation of the interaction, and (2) provides the individual with a transcript of the recording at such individual's expense. Requires the employee conducting an initial in-person or telephonic interview or other interaction to provide to the individual a verbal or written notice of such individual's rights. Exempts from the application of this Act any in-person or telephonic interview or other interaction that: (1) is likely to include the discussion of classified material or information that would endanger public safety if released publicly. Or (2) if released, would endanger an ongoing criminal investigation being conducted by a federal law enforcement officer.
Establishes a Russian-American financial oversight commission to monitor the use of Western resources in Russia. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) there should be established joint United States-Russian business, economics, and agricultural education programs in which Russian Federation students on completion of their studies in the United States be required to return to the Russian Federation and work for the federal or regional government in Russia. And (2) the United States and the government of the Russian Federation should create a program which would link successful US business leaders with their Russian Federation counterparts so that Russian Federation companies will be better able to access a pool of resources and knowledge to assist them in their transition to successfully competing in a market-based economy. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US Executive Director at the IMF to use the US vote to urge the IMF to create a commission, composed of prominent international financial experts, to draw up recommendations for reforming the IMF, with a view to achieving more transparency in the structures of the IMF and increasing the effectiveness of its programs while decreasing financial risk. Establishes a pilot housing loan program in which the average Russian citizen may attain affordable home ownership.
Amtrak Reauthorization Act of 2002 - Authorizes appropriations for Amtrak for FY 2003 for: (1) capital expenditures, (2) operating expenses. (3) payment to the Treasury in an amount equal to the tax Amtrak must pay as an employer under the Railroad Retirement Tax Act that is more than the amount needed for anticipated benefits for Amtrak retirees and for their beneficiaries. And (4) certain rail security projects. Requires Amtrak to transmit to the Secretary of Transportation a comprehensive business plan, including targets for ridership, revenues, and capital and operating expenses, and quarterly assessments of the extent to which the business plan goals have been achieved.
Includes among permitted additional grant projects: (1) specialized integrity and ethics training. (2) innovative proactive crime control and prevention programs involving school officials and religiously-affiliated organizations. (3) school-based partnerships between local law enforcement agencies and local school systems by using school resource officers who operate in and around elementary and secondary schools to serve as a law enforcement liaison with other Federal, State, and local law enforcement and regulatory agencies and to combat gang membership and criminal activity, firearms and explosives-related incidents, illegal use and possession of alcohol, and the illegal possession, use, and distribution of drugs. And (4) innovative programs that bring together a community's sheriff, police chief, and elderly residents to address the public safety concerns of older citizens. Authorizes the Attorney General to use up to five percent of appropriated funds for technical assistance and training to States, local governments, Indian tribal governments, and other public and private entities. Requires the technical assistance provided by the Attorney General to include the establishment and operation of regional community policing institutes training centers or facilities. Permits the functions of the centers or facilities to include instruction and seminars for specified individuals, including representatives of police labor and management organizations and community residents. Repeals provisions of the Act regarding: (1) termination of grants for hiring officers. And (2) preferential consideration of applications for certain grants. Allows grants to be used to assist: (1) police departments in employing specified professional, scientific, and technological advancements. And (2) State, local, or tribal prosecutors' offices in implementation of community-based prosecution programs that build on local community policing efforts. Reserves specified funds for units of local government with a population of less than 50,000. Authorizes the Attorney General to use no more than 50 percent of grant renewal funds to award grants targeted specifically for retention of police officers to grantees in good standing, with preference to those that demonstrate financial hardship or severe budget constraint that impacts the entire local budget and may result in the termination of employment for officers. Redefines: (1) career law enforcement officer to include sheriffs' deputies charged with supervising offenders who are released into the community but also engaged in local community policing efforts. And (2) school resource officer to mean a career law enforcement officer deployed in community-oriented policing and assigned to work in collaboration with schools and community-based organizations to engage in specified activities, including serving as a law enforcement liaison with other Federal, State, and local law enforcement and regulatory agencies to address and document crime and disorder problems, training students in conflict resolution and crime awareness, and assisting school administrators with the preparation of an annual report on the number of students expelled per year for bringing a weapon, firearm, or explosive to school. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for the nonrecognition of gain or loss for the transfer of common trust fund assets to regulated investment companies in exchange for stock when the stock is distributed to participants of the common trust fund in exchange for their interest in such fund.
Enhancing America's Security through Strategic Redeployment from Iraq Act - Sets forth the following findings: (1) ending the war in Iraq is necessary, however, how the war is ended is of even greater importance for US national security, the safety US Armed Forces members serving in Iraq, and stability in both Iraq and the Middle East. (2) an open-ended US involvement in Iraq is not in the interest of US national security and US military forces must be redeployed or risk becoming severely overstrained. And (3) redeployment from Iraq will be a lengthy process. Declares that: (1) it is critical that a comprehensive security plan is developed for Iraq and the region that accepts the necessity for a deliberate US redeployment of forces from Iraq. (2) a planned end to US involvement in Iraq will serve to force Iraqi leaders to assume responsibility for security and governance while providing Iran and Syria the incentive to prevent violence otherwise caused by the US redeployment. And (3) a goal for the redeployment's end rather than a date certain end is a necessary compromise to ensure a strategic approach for US security and to create to a greater level of post-redeployment Iraqi stability. States that: (1) with specified exceptions, redeployment of US Armed Forces in Iraq shall begin within three months, and that within six months troop levels shall be at least 15,000 below the pre-surge level of 130,000 troops. And (2) the goal is that all US Armed Forces in Iraq shall be deployed outside of Iraq within 20 months. States that funds for the Department of Defense (DOD) for Operation Iraqi Freedom may not be obligated or expended to support more than 115,000 US Armed Forces members within Iraq, with a goal of no funding for troops in Iraq within 20 months. States that the United States should take a leadership role in diplomatic efforts necessary for countries in the region, including Iran and Syria, to work together to ensure Iraq's long-term stability of Iraq.
Grow Our Own Directive: Physician Assistant Employment and Education Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out the Grow Our Own Directive or G. O. O. D. pilot program to provide educational assistance to certain former members of the Armed Forces for education and training as VA physician assistants. An individual is eligible to participate in the program if the individual: has medical or military health experience gained while serving in the Armed Forces. Has received a certificate, associate degree, baccalaureate degree, master's degree, or postbaccalaureate training in a science relating to health care. Has participated in the delivery of health care services or related medical services. And does not have a degree of doctor of medicine, doctor of osteopathy, or doctor of dentistry. The VA shall: provide educational assistance to program participants for the costs of obtaining a master's degree in physician assistant studies or a similar master's degree, ensure that mentors are available for program participants at each VA facility at which a participant is employed, and seek to partner with specified government programs and with appropriate educational institutions that offer degrees in physician assistant studies. The VA shall: establish specified standards to improve the education and and hiring of VA physician assistants, and implement a national plan for the retention and recruitment of VA physician assistants that includes the adoption of competitive pay standards. VA physician assistant pay grades are established.
Homeland Security Volunteerism Enhancement Act of 2005 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish: (1) a Citizens Corps, as a component of the USA Freedom Corps, to coordinate homeland security volunteer activities. And (2) a Border Corps as a volunteer organization to assist the US Border Patrol in carrying out its mission.
Confidential Information Protection Act - Requires data or information acquired by executive agencies for exclusively statistical purposes to be used only for such purposes. Prohibits data or information acquired by an agency for such purposes from being disclosed in identifiable form, for any purpose other than such a purpose, without the informed consent of the respondent. Requires a statistical agency to clearly distinguish any data or information it collects for nonstatistical purposes by a rule that provides that the respondent is fully informed that the information to be collected will be used for such purposes. Requires: (1) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to coordinate and oversee such confidentiality and disclosure policies. And (2) any rules proposed by an agency pursuant to this Act to be subject to the Director's review and approval. Exempts data or information acquired for exclusively statistical purposes from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act. Provides that this Act does not preempt applicable State law regarding the confidentiality of data collected by the States. Sets forth penalties for violations of this Act.
Employee Right to Choose Act of 2003 - Amends the National Labor Relations Act to revise collective bargaining requirements with respect to bargaining for an initial agreement to require generally shorter deadlines for commencement of bargaining, requests for mediation, and referrals of a dispute to arbitration. Requires certification of a bargaining representative without election if a majority of the bargaining unit employees have authorized designation of the representative and there is no other individual or labor organization so designated by 30 percent or more of the employees. Repeals the requirement for a secret ballot vote on rescission of the authority of a collective bargaining agreement upon petition by 30 percent or more of covered bargaining unit employees.
Gas Pump Access Act of 2016 This bill declares that it shall be a prohibited form of discrimination against individuals with disabilities in a place of public accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 for a gas station or convenience store to fail to clearly display at each self-service gas pump a decal that includes its telephone number and the words quot, Call for Assistance. quot. A gas station or convenience store that is open for business to the public with at least two attendants on duty must provide gas pumping assistance to a qualified individual with a disability who makes a request for such assistance. But it shall not be considered discrimination for a gas station or convenience store with one attendant on duty to fail to provide such requested gas pumping assistance if such attendant notifies the individual that assistance cannot be provided because there is only one attendant on duty. The Department of Transportation and the Department of Justice must promulgate regulations necessary to ensure compliance with this bill and make graphics for the decals publicly available on their websites.
Children First Act of 2010 - Amends part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act (SSA) to: (1) exclude child care assistance from the determination of the five-year limit on TANF assistance. And (2) increase funding for child care. Requires an eligible state's TANF plan to include a certification by the state's chief executive officer that procedures are in effect to ensure that any child care provider in the state that provides services funded through TANF expenditures or with qualified state expenditures complies with all applicable state or local health and safety requirements under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990. Increases from 5 to 12 the maximum age of a child for which a single custodial parent who is unable to find child care for such child will not penalized with a reduction or termination of TANF assistance based on that individual's refusal to engage in required work in order to take care of the child. Subjects to the individual and case data reporting requirements of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 any TANF funds expended for child care, whether or not transferred to that Act, and exempts such funds from SSA reporting requirements.
Medicare and Medicaid Provider Review Act of 1997 - Amends title XI of the Social Security Act (SSA) to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to: (1) establish a schedule of hourly rates for the conduct of annual financial and compliance audits during each fiscal year for all covered health care providers that receive payments under SSA title XVIII (Medicare) or XIX (Medicaid). And (2) provide for the conduct of such audits, in a separate HHS office, by specially trained and qualified personnel of each provider's substantial compliance with the requirements for receiving such payments. Amends SSA titles XVIII and XIX to require covered providers to provide for annual payment to the Secretary of appropriate amounts for the conduct of such audits. Makes appropriations to the Secretary from such payments for the sole purpose of conducting such audits. Directs the Secretary to study and report to the Congress on examining and accrediting agencies that audit and inspect covered providers.
Wildlife Corridors Conservation Act of 2010 - Establishes a National Fish and Wildlife Habitat and Corridors Information Program for the purposes of: (1) supporting states and Indian tribes in the development of a geographic information system database of fish and wildlife habitat and corridors that would inform planning and development decisions. And (2) facilitating the use of such databases, including the Habitat and Corridors Information System, by federal, state, local, and tribal decisionmakers to incorporate qualitative and quantitative information on such habitat and corridors at the earliest possible stage. Requires the development of a Habitat and Corridors Information System, as described in this Act. Bars certain information regarding the human remains of persons of Indian ancestry, or traditional or cultural resources, items, uses, or activities from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), if specified determinations are made regarding such disclosure. Directs the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to establish a Wildlife Corridors Stewardship and Protection Grant Program to fund projects by eligible applicants to advance important wildlife corridor stewardship and protection. States that it is US policy, where appropriate, to manage important wildlife corridors in a manner that will preserve and protect their natural condition. Includes important wildlife corridors as areas of critical environmental concern. Requires coordination of important wildlife corridors under National Forest System land and resource management plans. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA): (1) under the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, in determining the amount and rate of payments involving foregone income of a producer, to accord great significance to a practice that promotes wildlife corridor management. And (2) in carrying out any USDA-administered conservation program, to encourage the stewardship of habitat in important wildlife corridors and the use of conservation practices that benefit important wildlife corridors identified as such by a state.
Moving to Work Reform Act of 2015 This bill prohibits the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) from entering into or extending any Moving to Work agreement for any public housing agency (PHA) for participation in the Moving to Work Demonstration Program, unless the agreement is subject to specified terms and conditions set forth by this Act for its entire duration. Under such an agreement a PHA: may not establish any new rent policy that raises rent burdens for a significant portion of participating families, or causes specified other results, unless certain conditions are met. May use funds appropriated for renewal of tenant-based rental assistance only for payments assisting eligible families with housing costs. Shall receive funding for renewal of tenant-based rental assistance under the same formula applied to nonparticipating PHAs. Must provide ongoing housing assistance to substantially the same number of eligible low-income families as it could assist ordinarily but with average cost burdens no higher than those of families assisted under Sections 8 and 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937. And develop and implement a plan to expand families' access to neighborhoods with low crime, high-performing schools, or other indicators of high opportunity, if a disproportionately low share of PHA-assisted families lives in such neighborhoods. HUD may not waive specified housing-related requirements. HUD must conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the Demonstration Program to: analyze the risks and potential benefits of expanding it to additional agencies. And identify reforms, and selection criteria in case the Demonstration Program is expanded, that would improve its effectiveness in testing innovative policies while minimizing adverse effects on low-income families and ensuring efficient use of federal funds to meet the most pressing housing needs.
Homeland Security Information Sharing Partnerships Act of 2006 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a State, Local, and Tribal Information Fusion Center Initiative to establish partnerships with state, local, tribal, and regional information fusion centers . Specifies the Secretary's duties through such Initiative, including: (1) coordinating with the principal official of each state, local, tribal, or regional information fusion center and the official designated as the Homeland Security Advisor of the State. (2) providing Department of Homeland Security (DHS) operational and intelligence advice and assistance to such centers. (3) reviewing homeland security information gathered by such centers and incorporate relevant information with Department information. And (4) providing training to such centers and encourage them to participate in terrorist threat-related exercises conducted by the Department. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees with a concept of operations for the Initiative, including a privacy and civil liberties impact assessment. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, to establish a Homeland Security Information Sharing Fellows Program.
Establishes in the legislative branch the Afghanistan-Pakistan Study Group which shall conduct an independent assessment of the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan, its impact on the surrounding region, and its consequences for US interests. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Group should be modeled on the Iraq Study Group. Terminates the Group 60 days after it submits the report to the President and Congress required by this Act.
Assisted Living Pilot Program for Veterans with Traumatic Brain Injury Extension Act - Amends the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 to extend the pilot program to assess the effectiveness of providing assistance to eligible veterans with traumatic brain injury to enhance their rehabilitation, quality of life, and community integration. Requires that at least one location of the program be in each health care region of the Veterans Health Administration that contains a polytrauma center of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Expands requirements for reports on the pilot program. Replaces references to quot, assisted livingquot, with the term quot, community-based brain injury residential rehabilitative care,quot. Including rehabilitation services within the meaning of such care. Requires a veteran, in order to be eligible for such services, to have a traumatic brain injury that is classified as complex-mild to severe.
Wi-Fi Innovation Act - Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide additional unlicensed spectrum in the 5850-5925 megahertz band under technical rules suitable for the widespread commercial development of unlicensed operations. Provides for such technical rules to permit outdoor unlicensed operations without requiring devices to dynamically detect signals from other systems. Directs the FCC's Office of Engineering and Technology to seek public comments on proposals for interference-mitigation techniques and potential rechannelization that would accommodate both incumbent licensees and widespread commercial unlicensed operations in such band. Sets forth a process for the FCC to test mitigation measures and methods of sharing spectrum with unlicensed devices within such band in a manner that would not cause harmful interference to incumbent licensees. Directs the FCC, if it determines that existing licensees would not be harmed by interference, to modify regulations to adopt technical rules for widespread commercial deployment of unlicensed operations for such band. Prohibits modification of such regulations if the FCC determines that mitigation, rechannelization, or sharing would not prevent harmful interference. Requires the FCC to notify Congress, the Department of Transportation (DOT), and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) of a harmful interference determination. Requires the FCC to modify regulations relating to Intelligent Transportation Systems radio service and dedicated short-range communications service on-board units if such modification would maximize utility of such band while protecting existing licensees. Directs the FCC to make recommendations to Congress regarding the availability of broadband Internet access using unlicensed spectrum and wireless networks in low income neighborhoods.
Vote by Mail Act of 2017 This bill amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require states to allow voting in federal elections to be by mail without additional conditions or requirements, except a deadline for returning the ballot. States must mail ballots to individuals registered to vote in a federal election not later than two weeks before the election. The US Postal Service must carry ballots mailed by a state expeditiously and free of postage. The National Voter Registration Act of 1993 is amended to authorize automatic voter registration of individuals through state motor vehicle authorities.
Office of Biometric Identity Management Authorization Act of 2018 or the OBIM Authorization Act of 2018 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish within the Management Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the Office of Biometric Identity Management, which shall be administered by a director with significant management experience and experience in biometrics and identity management. The director shall have specified duties, including leading DHS's biometric identity services to support anti-terrorism, counterterrorism, border security, credentialing, national security, and public safety.
Young Child Tax Credit Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual taxpayers a new refundable tax credit based on the number of their qualifying children under the age of three and the taxpayer's adjusted gross income. Advance payments of credit amounts shall be made to taxpayers each month.
Department of National Homeland Security Act of 2001 - Establishes the Department of National Homeland Security. Includes the Secretary of National Homeland Security as a cabinet level position with membership on the National Security Council. Requires the Secretary to: (1) plan, coordinate, and integrate Government activities relating to homeland security, including border security and emergency preparedness, and act as a focal point regarding natural and manmade crises and emergency planning. (2) work with State and local governments and executive agencies in protecting US homeland security and support State officials through the use of regional offices. (3) provide overall planning guidance to such agencies regarding homeland security. (4) conduct exercise and training programs for department employees and establish command and control procedures for security contingencies, including those that require the substantial military support. And (5) annually develop a Federal response plan for homeland security and emergency preparedness. Transfers to the Agency the authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the US Customs Service, the Border Patrol of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the US Coast Guard, the Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office and the Institute of Information Infrastructure Protection of the Department of Commerce, and the National Infrastructure Protection Center and the National Domestic Preparedness Office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Establishes within the Department: (1) separate Directorates of Prevention, Critical Infrastructure Protection, and Emergency Preparedness and Response. And (2) an Office of Science and Technology to advise the Secretary with regard to research and development efforts and priorities for such directorates. Requires the Secretary to establish mechanisms for the sharing of information and intelligence with US and international intelligence entities.
Veterans' Housing Benefits Enhancement Act of 2007 - Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in the case of a member of the Armed Forces determined to have a total disability permanent in nature which was incurred or aggravated in the line of active duty, to furnish home improvements and structural alterations for the member for the disability while the member is hospitalized or receiving outpatient care, medical services, or treatment, if the Secretary determines that the member is likely to be discharged or released from the Armed Forces for such disability. Authorizes the provision of specially adapted housing assistance for: (1) disabled veterans whose disability is due to a severe burn injury. And (2) disabled members residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member. Makes veterans and members with a severe burn disability eligible for automobile and automotive adaptive equipment assistance.
Higher Education Fairness Act of 1997 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to revise certain need analysis formulas for student assistance. Requires deduction of the amount of the new Hope Scholarship and Lifetime Learning education expense tax credits taken under the Internal Revenue Code, as amended by the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 , in calculating family available income for determination of expected family contribution . Increases the amounts of income protection allowances for dependent students and for independent students without dependents other than a spouse.
Nonproliferation Assistance Coordination Act of 2001 - Establishes within the executive branch the Committee on Nonproliferation Assistance to the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union, which shall monitor and coordinate US nonproliferation efforts in the independent states of the former Soviet Union.
Rural Health Quality Advisory Commission Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish the Rural Health Quality Advisory Commission to develop, coordinate, and facilitate implementation of a national plan for rural health quality improvements. Requires that such plan: (1) identify objectives for rural health quality improvement. (2) identify strategies to eliminate known gaps in rural health system capacity and improve rural health quality. And (3) provide for federal programs to identify opportunities for strengthening and aligning policies and programs to improve rural health quality. Directs the Commission to: (1) design demonstration projects to test alternative models for rural health quality improvement, including with respect to both personal and population health. And (2) monitor progress towards identified objectives. Requires the Secretary to make grants for demonstration projects to implement and evaluate methods for improving the quality of health care in rural communities that include: (1) alternative community models. (2) innovative approaches to the financing and delivery of health services. And (3) the development of quality improvement support structures to assist rural health systems and professionals. Directs the Secretary to: (1) expedite Medicaid and Medicare waivers as necessary to carry out such demonstration projects, and (2) provide for an independent evaluation of such projects.
Amends the National Marine Sanctuaries Act to direct the Secretary to provide such a Council with the opportunity to propose and revise all regulations applicable to fishing within designated marine sanctuaries according to the standards and procedures of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. Requires such regulations, upon approval by the Secretary, to apply within the exclusive economic zone and allows them to be applied within a State, with the approval of the State's Governor or pursuant to the Secretary's authority under such Act.
Roosevelt Lake Recreation Area Fee Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and collect recreation use fees and to sell recreation use passes at designated recreation sites within the Roosevelt Lake Recreation Area in the Tonto National Forest, Arizona. Prohibits the Secretary from: (1) collecting such fees for the use or provision in the Area of drinking water, wayside exhibits, toilet facilities, general purpose roads, overlook sites, or general information. Or (2) imposing or collecting a fee from Federal, State, or local officers or employees authorized by the Secretary to perform administrative duties at recreation sites in the Area. Entitles holders of valid Golden Age Passports or Golden Access Passports to use a recreation site within the Area for half the applicable recreation use fee. Provides that such fees shall be in lieu of any recreation use fee. Provides that such fees shall be lieu of any recreation use fees for such sites under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 or the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. Terminates the authority of the Secretary to establish and collect fees or to sell such passes at the end of the seven-year period beginning on the enactment of this Act. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees regarding modifying or extending the authority to sell recreation use fees and passes. Requires the funds received from recreation use fees and passes sold to be deposited in a special account in the Treasury. Permits Fund amounts to be used for: (1) operation, maintenance, and management of recreation sites within the Area, (2) interpretation and management of the Area's resources, and (3) administrative costs associated with such activities.
Safe and Affordable Drugs from Canada Act of 2015 Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) to require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to promulgate regulations within 180 days permitting individuals to import a prescription drug purchased from an approved Canadian pharmacy that: is dispensed by a pharmacist licensed in Canada. Is purchased for personal use in quantities not greater than a 90-day supply. Is filled using a valid prescription issued by a physician licensed to practice in the United States. And has the same active ingredient or ingredients, route of administration, dosage form, and strength as a prescription drug approved under the FFDCA. Sets forth exceptions, including for controlled substances and biological products. Establishes a certification process for approving Canadian pharmacies. Requires HHS to publish a list of approved Canadian pharmacies.
DXM Abuse Prevention Act of 2016 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to prohibit the sale of a drug containing dextromethorphan (DXM) to an individual under age 18 unless the individual has a prescription or is actively enrolled in the military. Civil monetary penalties that escalate upon repeated violation are imposed. To possess or receive unfinished DXM, a person must be registered with the Department of Health and Human Services as a producer of a drug or medical device or otherwise allowed to engage in the practice of pharmacy, pharmaceutical production, or manufacture or distribution of drug ingredients. Unfinished DXM may be distributed only to these authorized persons. Common carriers distributing unfinished DXM between authorized persons are exempted. Civil monetary penalties are imposed for possession and distribution violations.
Investing for Tomorrow's Schools Act of 2014 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to enter into cooperative agreements with states to establish state and multistate infrastructure banks that make loans to local educational agencies, public libraries, and charter schools or their developers to construct or renovate public elementary or secondary schools and public libraries. Requires loans also to community learning centers to connect and improve broadband services. Grants congressional consent to states for interstate compacts to establish multistate infrastructure banks. Directs the Secretary to make grants to such banks to provide initial capital for such loans. Requires states to contribute from nonfederal sources at least 25 of the amount of each federal capitalization grant made to the state and contributed to the bank. Lists types of projects eligible for such bank loans. Requires borrowers to use, to the maximum extent practicable, green construction or renovation practices that are consistent with: (1) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating standards, (2) Energy Star standards, (3) Collaborative for High Performance Schools (CHPS) criteria, (4) Green Building Initiative environmental design and rating standards , or (5) equivalent standards adopted by the entities that have jurisdiction over them.
Domestic Violence Victims Housing Act - Increases specified authorizations of appropriations under the United States Housing Act of 1937 to provide rental relocation assistance to victims of domestic violence.
Judicial Transparency and Ethics Enhancement Act of 2006 - Amends the federal judicial code to establish the Office of Inspector General for the Judicial Branch of the US government, to be headed by an Inspector General appointed by the Chief Justice. Requires the Office to: (1) investigate matters pertaining to the Judicial Branch , including possible misconduct in office of justices and judges, (2) conduct and supervise audits and investigations. And (3) prevent and detect waste, fraud, and abuse. Provides for whistleblower protection.
Requires the Group to release such records in their entirety, with an exception for disclosures protected under Federal privacy laws or for certain national security information reasons. Provides a rebuttable presumption that the public interest will be served by the disclosure of such records. Provides for the expedited processing of Freedom of Information Act requests for such records by parties claiming to have been so persecuted.
National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act of 2008 - Amends the National Sea Grant College Program Act to: (1) substitute management for utilization in the definition of field related to ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources. (2) substitute extension services for advisory services in the definition of project. And (3) add a definition for regional research and information plan. Adds regional and national projects as elements of the national sea grant college program. Removes a reference to the sea grant review panel from provisions relating to the administration of the program. Refers to regional or national strategic investments being developed with the approval of sea grant colleges and the sea grant institutes . Revises the program director's duties. Requires that sea grants or contracts be responsive to the needs or problems of the nation, as well as to individual states and regions. Limits the special grant and graduate fellowship amounts that may be provided to 5 of the amount appropriated for the National Sea Grant College Program. Requires that sea grant colleges provide extension services. Exempts marine policy fellowships from federal cost sharing requirements. Redesignates the sea grant review panel as the National Sea Grant Advisory Board and modifies it's duties and powers and various administrative matters. Authorizes appropriations to carry out the Act. Allows any appropriated amounts exceeding the amounts appropriated for FY2003 to be distributed to certain regional or national strategic investments. Repeals a National Sea Grant College Program Act Amendments of 2002 provision requiring an annual report to the House Committee on Resources and Science and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on coordination of oceans and coastal research activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), including the Coastal Ocean Program and the National Sea Grant College Program, and the National Science Foundation.
Spirit of America Commemorative Coin Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $50 gold coins, one-dollar silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins emblematic of the tragic events that occurred at the Pentagon, in New York City, and in Pennsylvania, on September 11, 2001. Establishes the Victims of September 11th Fund which shall consist of amounts from surcharges received from the sale of such coins transferred to the Office for Victims of Crime for individuals who were injured, and to the families of individuals who were killed or injured, in the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001.
Safe and Secure Border Infrastructure Act - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to establish a safe and secure border infrastructure grant program, administered jointly by the Secretary and the Administrator of General Services (GSA), to construct transportation infrastructure improvements at existing and new international border crossings for the safe, secure, and efficient cross-border movement of motor vehicles, non-motor vehicles, cargo, and individuals, including pedestrians. Requires the Secretary to award grants to metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) located along the international border with Canada and Mexico, giving priority to projects that accomplish one or more of the following: (1) improve the safety and security at US facilities, including ports of entry. (2) facilitate safe, secure, and legal trade crossings of motor vehicles, non-motor vehicles, cargo, and individuals, including pedestrians, to alleviate border congestion and reduce the economic effect of border wait times and delays. (3) implement innovative technologies that enhance safety, security, or efficiency at the border. (4) coordinate projects that improve security and systems efficiencies at ports of entry. (5) facilitate economic development strategies with respect to safety and security. And (6) implement congestion relief and air quality management strategies to improve the environment. Specifies allocations of any funds appropriated to carry out this Act.
Detention of Enemy Combatants Act - Authorizes the detention of a US person or resident as an enemy combatant if that individual is an al Qaeda member or knowingly cooperated with an al Qaeda member in planning, authorizing, committing, aiding, or abetting a terrorist act against the United States. Directs the Secretary of Defense to prescribe, publish, and report the standards, process, and criteria: (1) to be used in determining that an American citizen or lawful resident is an enemy combatant. And (2) for that individual's detention. Requires rules for the detention of enemy combatants to: (1) establish clear standards and procedures that meet specified requirements, including preserving the Government's ability to detain those who may threaten the United States. And (2) guarantee timely access to judicial review and permit the detainee access to counsel. Authorizes a US person to be detained as an enemy combatant only while there is in effect a presidential certification that: (1) the US armed forces are in a state of armed conflict with al Qaeda and an investigation, prosecution, or post-trial proceeding regarding such person is ongoing. Or (2) detention is warranted to prevent such individual from aiding persons attempting to commit terrorist acts against the United States. Grants the US District Court for the District of Columbia exclusive jurisdiction to review any detention under this Act. Requires that detainees be: (1) detained at an appropriate location, (2) treated humanely, (3) afforded adequate food, water, shelter, clothing, and medical treatment, (4) sheltered under hygienic conditions. And (5) allowed the free exercise of religion consistent with specified requirements.
Amends the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993, Public Law 96-560 , and the American Wilderness Act of 1978 to designate specified lands in Acorn Creek, Gunnison, and Pitkin Counties, Colorado, as wilderness areas. Designates certain land in Eagle County, Colorado, as wilderness, the Red Table Mountain Wilderness Area . Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to allow for the maintenance of rights-of-way and access roads located within the Area in order to operate a transmission line or electrical power line. Withdraws all Federal lands within the Area from: (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws. And (3) the operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws. Permits continued aerial navigation training exercises by the Colorado Army National Guard in the Area. Declares that Congress does not intend for the establishment of protective perimeters or buffer zones around the Area. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to: (1) constitute a reservation of any water or water rights in lands designated as wilderness, (2) affect any conditional or absolute water rights in Colorado, (3) establish a precedent with regard to future wilderness designations. Or (4) affect compacts and decrees apportioning water among and between Colorado and other States. Prohibits the Secretary from making instream flow permit conditions within or upstream of the Area on existing facilities on National Forest System lands.
Taxpayers' Cancer Research Funding Act of 1996 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain individuals to designate that five dollars be paid over to the Breast and Prostate Cancer Research Fund. Establishes a trust fund to be known as the Breast and Prostate Cancer Research Fund into which such designated amounts shall be deposited.
Pro-Growth Budgeting Act of 2014 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (CBA) to require the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to prepare for each major bill or resolution reported by any congressional committee , as a supplement to CBO cost estimates, a macroeconomic impact analysis of the budgetary effects of such legislation for the 10-fiscal year period beginning with the first fiscal year for which such estimate was prepared and each of the next three 10-fiscal year periods. Defines quot, major bill or resolutionquot. As any bill or resolution whose budgetary effects, for any fiscal year in the period for which a CBO cost estimate is prepared, is estimated to be greater than .25 of the current projected US gross domestic product (GDP) for that fiscal year. Requires the analysis to describe: (1) the potential economic impact of the bill or resolution on major economic variables, including real GDP, business investment, the capital stock, employment, interest rates, and labor supply. And (2) the potential fiscal effects of the measure, including any estimates of revenue increases or decreases resulting from changes in GDP. Requires the analysis to specify the economic and econometric models used, sources of data, relevant data transformations, as well as any explanation necessary to make the models comprehensible to academic and public policy analysts. Requires the CBO, five fiscal years after the enactment of any major bill or joint resolution for which it prepared a macroeconomic impact analysis, to report to the congressional budget committees on the accuracy of the original analysis.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow: (1) a tax credit against the gasoline excise tax for renewable liquid fuels. And (2) a business tax credit for renewable liquid used as fuel. Defines renewable liquid as liquid hydrocarbons derived from certain waste and byproduct streams. Terminates such credits after 2010.
Federal Computer Security Act Directs the Inspector General of each executive agency that operates a federal computer system that provides access to classified information or personally identifiable information to submit to the Comptroller General and specified congressional committees a report that includes: a description of the logical access standards used by the agency to access such system, including whether the agency is using multi-factor logical access controls for such access. If the agency does not use such access controls, a description of the reasons for not doing so. A description of the data security management practices used by the agency, including the policies and procedures for conducting inventories of software and associated licenses, an indication that the agency has entered into a licensing agreement for the use of software security controls to monitor and detect threats, or an explanation for why it has not entered such an agreement. And a description of agency policies and procedures for ensuring that entities that provide services to the agency are implementing data security management practices. Directs the Comptroller General to submit a report on any impediments to agency use of effective security software and security devices.
Rewrites provisions of the federal criminal code regarding material witnesses. Authorizes a judicial officer (officer) to: (1) order the arrest of a person as a material witness if it appears from an affidavit filed by a party in a federal criminal case, or by a government attorney in a matter before a federal grand jury, that there is probable cause to believe that the person's testimony is material and that the person has been served with a summons or subpoena (summons) and has failed or refused to appear. And (2) waive the summons requirement upon finding by clear and convincing evidence that service is likely to result in the person fleeing or that the person's appearance cannot adequately be secured. Establishes warrant requirements, including that the witness be brought before a judicial officer without unnecessary delay and be informed of the right to counsel. Requires an officer, at the initial appearance, to: (1) inform a witness of the warrant and right to counsel. (2) allow the witness a reasonable opportunity to consult with counsel. And (3) release or detain the witness . Limits the detention period. Requires: (1) a detention order to direct that a witness be held in a facility separate from persons charged with or convicted of a criminal offense, under the least restrictive conditions possible. And (2) the Attorney General to report annually to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees.
Small Business Jobs Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a qualified small employer a business-related tax credit for the cost of hiring up to 5 new employees who work for such employer, on average, at least 30 hours per week. The bill defines quot, qualified small employerquot. As an employer who: (1) has a place of business in a county with an annual unemployment rate that is at least 1 greater than the national rate for the preceding calendar year. And (2) did not employ fewer than 2, or more than 100, employees in the preceding calendar year. The bill allows an employer who is a tax-exempt organization to claim such credit. The credit is not available for wages paid after December 31, 2017.
Clean Distributed Energy Grid Integration Act This bill directs the Department of Energy (DOE) to: (1) study the status of integration of clean distributed energy into electric grids, (2) identify issues requiring additional research or regulatory development, and (3) make grants for research proposals that address technical barriers identified in the study. quot, Clean distributed energyquot. Means energy technologies that are located on the customer site operating on the customer side of the electric meter and are interconnected with the electric grid. DOE shall convene a stakeholder working group to: address regulatory barriers to deployment of intelligent grid integration of clean distributed energy technologies. And provide guidance on how to address the technical, regulatory, and economic factors that limit widespread integration of grid-level clean distributed energy use in order to advance the integration of such energy into electric grids. DOE may make grants to implement integration demonstration projects, based on study findings, to state and local agencies, public institutions, private companies, electric utilities, and equipment manufacturers.
Deceptive Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act of 2007 - Amends the federal criminal code to make it unlawful for anyone before or during a federal election to knowingly communicate, or attempt to communicate, false election-related information about that election, with the intent to prevent another person from exercising the right to vote. Increases from one year to five years' imprisonment the criminal penalty for intimidation of voters. Directs the US Sentencing Commission to review and, if appropriate, amend the federal sentencing guidelines and policy statements applicable to persons convicted of any offense under this Act. Authorizes any person to report to the Attorney General false election information or intimidation of voters. Requires the Attorney General, immediately after receiving such a report, to consider and review it and, if there is a reasonable basis to find that a violation has occurred, to: (1) undertake all effective measures necessary to provide correct information to voters affected by the false information. And (2) refer the matter to the appropriate federal and state authorities for criminal prosecution or civil action after the election. Directs the Attorney General to study and report to Congress on the feasibility of providing such corrective information through public service announcements, the emergency alert system, or other forms of public broadcast. Requires the Attorney General to establish a Voting Integrity Task Force to carry out the requirements of this Act with respect to any general, primary, run-off, or special election for federal office.
Small Cap Liquidity Reform Act of 2014 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to establish a pilot liquidity program for equity securities of emerging growth companies (EGCs) with total annual gross revenues of less than $750 million, under which those securities shall be quoted using either: (1) a minimum increment of $0.05 or $0.10, or (2) the increment at which the securities would be quoted without regard to such minimum increments. Repeals the requirement for an SEC study examining the transition to trading and quoting securities in one penny increments, known as decimalization. Directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to determine, in the case of an EGC whose securities are quoted at a minimum increment of either $0.05 or $0.10, the increment at which such securities are traded. Requires EGC securities quoted at a minimum increment of $0.05 or $0.10 to be traded at either such minimum increment or at one permitted by SEC regulations. Permits an EGC to opt out or change such minimum increment upon notifying the SEC 90 days after enactment of this Act. Limits any EGC to a single change of minimum increment . Requires the SEC, upon notification of an EGC election, to inform each trading venue where the EGC securities are quoted or traded. Requires that securities of issuers that cease to be EGCs be quoted at the increment at which such securities would be quoted without regard to the minimum increments established under this Act. Prescribes pricing and trading procedures governing securities trading below $1.00. Directs the SEC to require an EGC under this Act to submit additional reports and disclosures. Shields an issuer from liability for losses caused solely by the quoting or trading of its securities at a minimum increment of $0.05 or $0.10, another SEC-authorized increment, or by both such quoting and trading. Directs the SEC to report biannually to Congress on: (1) the quoting and trading of securities in increments permitted by this Act, and (2) the extent to which such quoting and trading increases liquidity and active trading by incentivizing capital commitment, research coverage, and brokerage support. Authorizes the SEC to: (1) make adjustments to the pilot program to ensure that it can provide statistically meaningful or reliable results, and (2) conduct any other study or pilot program to evaluate quoting or trading in various minimum increments. Sunsets the pilot program five years after enactment of this Act.
Secondary Metal Theft Prevention Act of 2009 - Expresses the sense of Congress that government agencies should work with representatives of the secondary metal recycling industry to combat the theft and sale of stolen secondary metal. Defines secondary metal as: (1) wire or cable commonly used by communications and electrical utilities. And (2) copper, aluminum, or other metal that is valuable for recycling or reuse as raw metal. Makes it unlawful to sell certain secondary metal unless the seller documents ownership and maintains written or electronic records of each secondary metal purchase. Includes within the prohibition: (1) secondary metal that is marked with the name, logo, or initials of a railroad, a utility company, or a state or local government, (2) highway or street poles, fixtures, rails, or signs, (3) unused or undamaged building construction or utility material, (4) historical markers or grave markers. And (5) large bulk containers for beer. Prohibits cash purchases of secondary metal in excess of $75 or small multiple cash purchases within a 48-hour period. Requires purchasers of secondary metal in excess of $75 to pay by check. Empowers the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and state attorneys general to enforce this Act. Imposes a civil penalty for violations. Declares that this Act does not preempt any state or local law regulating the sale or purchase of secondary metal.
Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2014 - Amends the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (NECPA) to revise requirements for energy savings performance contracts. Directs each federal facility energy manager to provide an explanation regarding life cycle cost-effective measures that have not been implemented as part of the web-based compliance certification system. Requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to report to the President and Congress on each agency's energy savings performance contracts and utility energy service contracts, including their investment value and their energy savings. Expands the kinds of energy conservation measures that may be implemented under the contracts by including those involving energy consuming devices and required support structures. Prohibits agencies from limiting recognition of operation and maintenance savings associated with energy systems that were modernized or replaced with energy conservation measures and water conservation measures . Authorizes agencies to sell or transfer energy savings and apply the proceeds to fund a contract. Expands the meaning of energy savings to include: (1) the use, sale, or transfer of energy incentives, rebates, or credits from federal, state, or local governments or utilities. And (2) any revenue generated from a reduction in energy or water use, more efficient waste recycling, or additional energy generated from more efficient equipment.
Space to Schools Act of 2010 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to implement a program to encourage individuals who are former employees of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), its suppliers, or related contractors who have relevant work experience in the aerospace industry to pursue careers as elementary, secondary, or vocational school teachers. Sets forth educational background requirements for program participants. Requires program participants to enter into an agreement to: (1) obtain certification or licensing as an elementary, secondary, vocational, or technical school teacher, and to become a highly qualified teacher. And (2) accept an offer of full-time employment as an elementary, secondary, vocational, or technical school teacher for at least three school years and commit to teaching science, technology, engineering, or mathematics after obtaining such certification or licensing. Directs the Secretary to provide program participants with: (1) a stipend for use in obtaining certification or licensing. Or (2) a larger bonus if they agree to perform their service in high-need schools. Requires the Secretary to establish an Advisory Board to oversee the program.
This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax credit for the production of electricity from advanced nuclear power facilities, to: (1) establish requirements for the allocation of unutilized portions of the national megawatt capacity limitation, and (2) allow public entities to transfer the credit to project partners. If a portion of the 6,000 national megawatt capacity limitation for the credit is unutilized after December 31, 2020, the Internal Revenue Service must allocate the unutilized capacity: (1) first to facilities that were placed in service on or before December 31, 2020, and did not receive an allocation equal to their full nameplate capacity, and (2) then to facilities placed in service after December 31, 2020, in the order in which the facilities are placed in service. The placed-in-service sunset date of January 1, 2021, does not apply to the allocations of unutilized national megawatt capacity. Qualified public entities may transfer the credit to an eligible project partner. A quot, qualified public entityquot. Is: (1) a federal, state, or local government or any political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof, (2) a mutual or cooperative electric company. Or (3) a not-for-profit electric utility which has or had received a loan or loan guarantee under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936. An quot, eligible project partnerquot. Includes any person who: (1) is responsible for, or is participating in, the design or construction of the facility. (2) participates in the provision of nuclear steam or nuclear fuel to the facility, or (3) has an ownership interest in the facility.
Grow Research Opportunities With Taxcredits' Help Act or GROWTH Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) extend the tax credit for increasing research activities through 2010. (2) modify the rate of such credit and make such modified credit permanent after 2010. And (3) increase to 20 the rate of the alternative simplified research tax credit after 2010.
Teacher Protection Act of 2001 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish a new title XV, School Discipline and Teacher Liability Protection. Preempts State law except where it provides additional protection of teachers from liability. Makes this Act inapplicable to any civil action in State court against a teacher in which all parties are citizens of the State, if it enacts a statute electing that this Act not apply. Provides that no teacher in a school shall be liable, with specified exceptions, for harm caused by an act or omission on behalf of the school if the teacher was acting within the scope of employment or responsibilities relating to providing educational services, and if certain other conditions are met. Limits punitive damages.
Establishes the Consumer Price Index Review Committee to study and report to Congress on: (1) improved, more accurate methods for determining a Consumer Price Index for the Elderly to ensure that the improved index accurately measures changes in expenditures for consumption typical for retirees who receive Old-Age and Survivors Insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act (SSA), as well as an index implementation plan. And (2) an accurate consumer price index for individuals who receive SSA title II disability insurance benefits. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics to establish a pilot program to test the accuracy of an operational Consumer Price Index for the Elderly, which indicates changes in such consumption expenditures. Provides for implementation of the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit a person from holding a gun show unless such person is licensed to do so and at least 30 days have elapsed since the person has notified the Secretary of the Treasury and the chief law enforcement officer of the postal address and the dates and times at which the show is to be held. Sets forth provisions regarding license application requirements, fees, and application approval or denial procedures. Requires that before an unlicensed person transfers a firearm at a gun show, such person shall provide to the holder of the show written notice of: (1) the name, age, and address of such person and of the transferee, (2) the serial number, make, and model of the firearm. And (3) the date and location of the transfer. Requires the holder of the show to: (1) comply with requirements imposed on firearms dealers with respect to firearm transfers. And (2) deliver show records to the Secretary within 30 days after the show. Sets forth penalties for violations of this Act.
Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act This bill declares that the proposed or the final rule of the Department of Labor entitled Defining and Delimiting the Exemptions for Executive, Administrative, Professional, Outside Sales and Computer Employees shall cease to have any force or effect. The rule revises the quot, white collarquot. Exemption of executive, administrative, professional, outside sales, and computer employees from minimum wage and maximum hour, or overtime, requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA). If the proposed rule is a final rule on the date of enactment of this bill: Labor shall not enforce it based on conduct occurring before that enactment date, an employee shall not have any right of action against an employer for the employer's failure to comply with the final rule at any time before that enactment date, any regulations that were amended by the final rule shall be restored and revived as if the final rule had never taken effect, and nothing in this bill shall be construed to create a right of action for an employer against an employee for the recoupment of any payments made to the employee before the enactment of this bill that were in compliance with that final rule. Labor may promulgate any substantially similar rule only if it has completed certain required actions. But the rule shall not contain any automatic updates to the salary threshold for purposes of exemptions to minimum wage and maximum hour requirements under the FLSA. The requirement that definitions applicable for such exemptions be defined and delimited from time to time by Labor regulations shall be construed to: require Labor to issue a new rule through notice and comment rulemaking for each change in any salary threshold it has proposed. And exclude any rule that would result in changes to any salary threshold for multiple time periods, including through any automatic updating procedure. Labor may not promulgate any final rule that includes any revision to duties tests for exemption from minimum wage and maximum hours requirements unless specific regulatory text for the provision was proposed in the proposed rule.
Crop Risk Options Plan Act of 2013 - Amends the Federal Crop Insurance Act to make available to crop producers additional coverage to cover part of a crop insurance policy deductible based upon: (1) an individual or area yield and loss basis, (2) an individual yield and loss basis supplemented with coverage based on an area yield and loss basis , or (3) a margin basis alone or in combination with the coverages available in (1) or (2). Triggers the supplemental coverage option only if area losses exceed 10 of normal levels. Provides for: (1) 60 premium coverage plus operating and administrative costs paid by the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC), and (2) coverage to begin no later than crop year 2014. Provides that in the case of the supplemental coverage option, FCIC shall offer producers the opportunity to purchase coverage that pays indemnities on a county-wide level or on a larger geographical area level in counties that lack sufficient data. Directs FCIC, in developing yield guarantees, to use county data collected by the Risk Management Agency andor the National Agricultural Statistics Service.
International Money Transfer Disclosure Act - Directs certain Federal agencies to jointly prescribe regulations requiring a financial institution or money transmitting business which initiates an international money transfer on behalf of a consumer to make a good faith effort to disclose to the consumer before consummation of the transaction: (1) any fees to be charged to the recipient, including any exchange rate or currency conversion fees. (2) a final itemization of all costs to the consumer for the remittance. And (3) the exact amount of foreign currency to be received by the recipient in the foreign country. Mandates that such disclosures take place in English and in the same language, if other than English, as the language principally used by the financial institution or money transmitting business to advertise, solicit, or negotiate at its office where the international money transfer is initiated.
Wildlife Without Borders Authorization Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a Wildlife Without Borders Program within the US Fish and Wildlife Service to provide international wildlife conservation assistance through the initiation, facilitation, and promotion of locally adapted wildlife management and conservation programs in coordination with non-governmental organizations, governments, private businesses, and community leaders. Specifies the species, regional, and global program components that shall be included in the Wildlife Without Borders Program. Permits the Secretary, in the administration of the Wildlife Without Borders Program, to accept donated funds and to use them for capacity building, grants, and other on-the-ground uses carried out under the regional and global program components authorized by this Act.
Requires the FCC to: (1) devise a schedule for payments to the Treasury for shared-use spectrum used by private wireless systems. And (2) adopt a payment schedule determined to be in the public interest. Prohibits competitive bidding requirements from being construed to permit the FCC to take any action to create mutual exclusivity where it does not already exist.
Culture of Safety Hospital Accountability Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Heatlh and Human Services (HHS) to study for a report made available on the Internet website of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services: (1) existing activities and programs in hospitals for quality assurance, patient safety, and performance improvement. And (2) any best practices that should be replicated in hospitals to improve patient safety and quality of care, consistent with the quality assessment and performance improvement program, as required by the conditions of participation for hospitals under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. Directs the Secretary to establish the Culture of Safety Hospital Accountability demonstration program to support establishing partnerships and other cooperative approaches among hospitals, state health care agencies, and HHS to promote and implement the best practices.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should take diplomatic steps to express gratitude to Greece for upholding the rule of law in preventing hostile forces from violating a legal naval blockade of Gaza by Israel and thereby advancing the security of its ally Israel. Directs the Secretary of State to report to Congress on whether any support organization that participated in the planning or execution of the recent Gaza flotilla attempt should be designated as a foreign terrorist organization.
Campus Fire Safety Education Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Education to establish a program to award grants, on a competitive basis, to institutions of higher education or consortiums of such institutions for: (1) initiating, expanding, or improving fire safety education programs. And (2) increasing fire safety awareness among enrolled students. Directs the Secretary to give priority to institutions that plan to use funds to initiate, expand, or improve fire safety education programs that include educational material specifically prepared for students with physical, sensory, or cognitive disabilities. Sets forth provisions regarding grant periods, limits on awards, and matching and other requirements. Requires an institution to use grant funds to initiate, expand, or improve a fire safety education program that: (1) reaches all enrolled students. (2) ensures maximum exposure to and increased awareness of, and that effectuates change in behavior regarding, fire safety by students through conducting outreach to students a minimum of twice per academic year and through measures that provide fire safety information to any student upon request. (3) includes minimum instruction regarding fire behavior, fire injury and death, ignition scenarios, fire safety systems and equipment, and the importance of means of egress. And (4) includes a mechanism for carrying out evaluations of program effectiveness. Requires the Secretary to publish a report of best practices for initiating, expanding, or improving fire safety education programs.
Terrorism Elimination Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish in the US Treasury the Counter-Terrorism Trust Fund. Provides that amounts in the Counter-Terrorism Trust Fund shall be available, as provided in appropriation Acts, for purposes of making expenditures for counter-terrorism efforts by the United States. Authorizes the issuance of bonds to be known as Freedom Bonds, in response to the acts of terrorism perpetrated against the United States on September 11, 2001. Requires proceeds from the issuance of Freedom Bonds to be used to raise funds to assist in recovery operations following such terrorist acts and for efforts to combat terrorism. Permits a taxpayer to designate that a specified portion of any tax overpayment and any cash contribution which the taxpayer includes with such return be deposited into the Counter-Terrorism Trust Fund. Requires, in addition to other fees authorized to be charged for the consideration or processing of an application for an immigrant or nonimmigrant visa under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Attorney General to impose an additional 15 percent surcharge. Requires amounts collected pursuant to such surcharge to be held in a separate account and transferred to the Counter-Terrorism Trust Fund.
Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act - Amends the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to limit the federal share of the cost of acquiring land for, or construction or expansion of, public target ranges in eligible states to 90 of such cost. Defines eligible state to mean a state that, since the most recent decennial census, has experienced: (1) at least a 2 growth in population. And (2) a reduction in the acreage of federal lands in such state where target practice and marksmanship training are permitted. Specifies that amounts made available and apportioned for grants that are provided to eligible states under the firearm and bow hunter education and safety program for acquiring land for, or construction or expansion of, public target ranges shall remain available until they are expended. Permits not more than 10 of the amounts apportioned to an eligible state under the Act for such state's wildlife conservation and restoration program to be used for acquiring land for, or construction or expansion of, public target ranges or for assisting a federal land-management agency with environmental remediation or other steps needed to allow for public target ranges on federal lands.
Loan Interest Forgiveness for Education Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited deduction on an amount equal to the interest paid by a taxpayer on any qualified educational loan.
Depository Institution Consumer Protection Act of 1997 - Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require each Federal banking agency to prescribe consumer protection regulations pertaining to the sales, solicitations, advertising, or offers of a nondeposit product by a retail depository institution . Encompasses within the ambit of such regulations: (1) anticoercion sales and product marketing rules, (2) product suitability. (3) mandatory disclosure of the non-insured and non-guaranteed status of a nondeposit product, including investment risks, (4) prohibition of misrepresentation, (5) physical segregation of banking and nonbanking activities, (6) sales personnel qualification requirements and training. And (7) the structuring of compensation programs with respect to nondeposit product referral or sales incentives. Directs Federal banking regulators to jointly establish a consumer enforcement mechanism for expeditious consumer complaint resolution. Proscribes the use of a deposit institution name or logo in connection with a nondeposit product serviced by such institution. Sets forth safeguards relating to confidential consumer financial information.
Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians Land Affirmation Act of 2017 This bill ratifies and confirms the actions of the Department of the Interior to: (1) take approximately 1,427 acres of land in Santa Barbara County, California, into trust for the benefit of the Santa Ynez Band of Chumash Indians, (2) assume jurisdiction over the appeals relating to the acquisition of this land, and (3) dismiss those appeals. The land is made part of the Santa Ynez Indian Reservation. The bill removes restrictions on the land pursuant to certain state laws. Gaming is prohibited on this land.
Breast Cancer Patient Education Act of 2012 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide for the planning and implementation of an education campaign to inform breast cancer patients anticipating surgery regarding the availability and coverage of breast reconstruction, prostheses, and other options. Requires such campaign to include dissemination of the following information: (1) breast reconstruction is possible at the time of breast cancer surgery or in a delayed fashion, (2) prostheses or breast forms may be available. (3) federal law mandates that both public and private health plans include coverage of breast reconstruction and prostheses. (4) the patient has a right to choose the provider of reconstructive care, including the potential transfer of care to a surgeon that provides breast reconstructive care. And (5) the patient may opt to undergo breast reconstruction in a delayed fashion for personal reasons or after completion of all other breast cancer treatments. Prohibits such campaign from specifying, or being designed to serve as a tool to limit, the health care providers available to patients.
Revises provisions with respect to the loan default procedure for veterans' housing loans guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to reimburse the holder of the loan obligation for such advances, costs, and attorney's fees properly and reasonably incurrred in connection with the default and to receive an assignment of the loan and security. Directs the Secretary to notify the mortgagor, within ten days after receiving a notice of default from the veteran, that the Secretary may purchase the loan from the holder. Outlines notification and loan purchase requirements. Directs the Secretary to obtain and hold a quitclaim deed from the mortgagor to the Secretary for the real property securing the loan after the loan is purchased from the loan holder and before the Secretary makes any modifications to the loan instruments or grants any forbearance. Allows such unrecorded quitclaim deed to be returned to the mortgagor if the mortgagor brings the loan current and keeps it current for 12 consecutive months. Makes permanent all such loan default procedures .
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to revise the process for blocking the access of military recruiters or institutions of higher education (IHEs) to secondary school student information. Requires ESEA-assisted local educational agencies (LEAs) to notify each secondary school student's parent of the option to submit a written request to the LEA that the student's name, address, and telephone listing not be released to military recruiters or IHEs without the parent's prior written consent. Prohibits LEAs from providing military recruiters or IHEs access to such information once they have received such consent request, unless the student's parent provides written consent to such access. Gives students the rights accorded to their parents when they reach age 18. Requires the Secretary of Defense to notify the Governor of the LEA's state and the Secretary of Education when an LEA denies access to military recruiters. Requires the Secretary of Education, upon receiving such notice, to determine whether: (1) the LEA has failed to comply substantially with the requirement to provide military recruiters with access to students and student information unless the parents have filed a prior consent request under this Act. And (2) the imposition of a penalty or remedy against the LEA is warranted.
Historic Rehabilitation Tax Credit Expansion Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the offset for rental real estate activities under passive activity rules to increase the rehabilitation credit under such rules. Allows the rehabilitation investment credit to offset a portion of tentative minimum tax.
Rural Law Enforcement Assistance Act of 1997 - Authorizes the establishment of the National Center for Rural Law Enforcement as a private, nonprofit corporation for the purpose of assisting rural law enforcement agencies with management education and training, maintaining a clearinghouse, evaluation, technical assistance, research, computer and forensic education and training, and providing other support. Authorizes appropriations.
Agricultural Bioterrorism Countermeasures Act of 2001 - Authorizes appropriations for biosecurity upgrades at specified Department of Agriculture and related facilities. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to bioterrorism countermeasures, to: (1) expand Agricultural Research Service programs to protect the domestic food supply. (2) establish a Consortium for Countermeasures Against Agricultural Bioterrorism comprised of institutions of higher education in partnership with Federal agencies to develop long-term biosecurity programs. (3) enhance the National Research Initiative of the Competitive Grants Program of the Award Grants Program of the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service by awarding grants for bioterrorism protective measures. And (4) expand the capacities of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and the Food Safety Inspection Service. Authorizes appropriations.
Stop Turning Out Prisoners Act - Revises provisions of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 regarding judicial remedies with respect to prison conditions. Specifies that prospective relief in a civil action with respect to prison conditions shall extend no further than necessary to remove the conditions that are causing the deprivation of the Federal rights of individual plaintiffs in that action. Prohibits the court from granting or approving any prospective relief unless it finds that the relief is narrowly drawn and the least intrusive means to remedy the violation of the Federal right. Directs the court, in determining the intrusiveness of the relief, to give substantial weight to any adverse impact on public safety or the operation of a criminal justice system caused by the relief. Prohibits the court, in any such action, from granting or approving any relief whose purpose or effect is to reduce or limit the prison population unless the plaintiff proves that crowding is the primary cause of the deprivation of the Federal right and no other relief will remedy that deprivation. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) termination of relief, (2) procedure for motions affecting prospective relief, (3) standing, (4) special masters, and (5) attorney's fees.
Prostate Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment Act of 1997 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage of services for the early detection of prostate cancer and certain drug treatments for such cancer. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish fee schedules for such services. Amends Federal law to cover such detection and treatment services for veterans as a preventive health service.
Taxpayers Right to Know Act - Requires the head of each federal agency in each fiscal year to: (1) identify and describe every program administered by such agency. (2) determine the total administrative expenses and expenditures for services for each program. (3) estimate the number of clients served by each program and the beneficiaries who received assistance under each program. (4) estimate the number of full-time federal and contract employees who administer each program. And (5) identify federal programs with duplicative or overlapping missions, services, and allowable uses of funds. Requires agency heads to publish on agency websites the information required by this Act, the latest performance reviews of each agency program, improper payment rates, the total amount of unspent and unobligated program funds held by the agency and grant recipients, and recommendations for consolidating duplicative programs, eliminating waste and inefficiency, and terminating lower priority, outdated, and unnecessary programs and initiatives. Expands the scope of information required in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance to include: (1) programs providing assistance to foreign nations, international organizations, and services provided or funded by agencies operating outside the United States, (2) information required by this Act. And (3) budget functions and authorization and appropriation amounts for each assistance program in the Catalog.
Department of Veterans Affairs Construction, Accountability, and Reform Act This bill authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out the Aurora medical facility project to replace the VA Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado. The Secretary may not pay any bonus during FY2015-FY2016. If the project to replace the VA Medical Center in Aurora, Colorado, is not completed by September 30, 2016, the Secretary may not pay any bonus until the date on which the Secretary certifies to Congress that such major medical facility project is fully operational. The aggregate amount of subsequent fiscal year bonuses is capped through FY2024. The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary of the Army for the Army Corps of Engineers to carry out the design, contract, construction management, and other similar services for the Aurora project. The Secretary is prohibited from carrying out any major medical facility project. The Secretary of the Army, through the Chief of Engineers, shall carry out all major medical facility projects for the Department. The Government Accountability Office shall review the Secretary's management of the Aurora project. The Secretary must notify Congress at least 120 days before obligating funds for major medical facility projects that exceed authorized amounts.
Veterans Justice Outreach Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a program to support veterans in contact with the criminal justice system by discouraging unnecessary criminalization of mental illness and other nonviolent crimes. The program shall be carried out in partnership with local law enforcement, judicial, and community-based treatment and legal assistance organizations. The VA shall establish coordinators to provide program outreach.
Anti-Pyramid Promotional Scheme Act of 2016 This bill prohibits the establishment, operation, or promotion of a pyramid promotional scheme, which is defined as a plan or operation by which a person gives consideration to a participant in the scheme for the right to receive compensation derived primarily from the participant's introduction of another person into the plan or operation rather than from the sale of products to ultimate users. The bill grants enforcement authority to the Federal Trade Commission and requires violations to be treated as unfair or deceptive acts or practices under the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Independent Contractor Tax Simplification Act of 1996 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that, for purposes of determining the employment status of individuals as employees, a service provider shall not be treated as an employee, a service recipient shall not be treated as an employer, a payor shall not be treated as an employer, and compensation paid or received for such service shall not be treated as paid or received with respect to employment if certain conditions are met.
Establishes within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Health to facilitate advocacy for the development of appropriate Indian health policy, and promote consultation on matters related to Indian health, in a manner consistent with the government-to-government relationship between the United States and Indian tribes. Elevates the position of Director of the Indian Health Service to such Assistant Secretary position. Makes the Indian Health Service an agency of the Public Health Service.
Prescription Drug Labeling Promotion Act of 2012 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a working group to develop best practices on access to prescription drug labeling for the visually impaired. Requires the working group to: (1) include equal representation of consumer and industry advocates. (2) promulgate guidance on best practices for pharmacies to ensure that blind and visually impaired individuals have safe, consistent, reliable, and independent access to the information in the labeling of prescription drugs. (3) consider the use of Braille, specified auditory means, and enhanced visual means to provide such access. And (4) consider whether there are technical, financial, manpower, or other factors that may fundamentally impact the ability of pharmacies with 20 or fewer retail locations to implement the best practices. Directs the Commissioner of Food and Drugs (FDA) to conduct an informational and educational program to inform the public and pharmacists about such guidance and practices. Directs the Comptroller General: (1) 18 months after such guidance and practices are published, to review pharmacy compliance and the extent to which access barriers continue. And (2) by September 30, 2016, to report on such review, including recommendations for reducing such barriers.
United States Mariner and Vessel Protection Act of 2009 - Authorizes the Coast Guard's Commandant to deploy a maritime safety and security team for up to six months to deter, protect against, and rapidly respond to acts of piracy against vessels in international waters. Directs the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to issue regulations establishing standards and circumstances under which an individual is authorized to use force against an individual in the defense of a vessel against piracy. Limits the liability of the individuals, the federal government, and owners, operators, and masters of vessels in actions arising out of a use of force authorized under the regulations. Directs the Secretary to work through the International Maritime Organization (IMO) to establish agreements to promote coordinated action among flag and port states to deter, protect against, and rapidly respond to acts of piracy against the vessels of, and in the waters under the jurisdiction of, those nations, and to ensure limitations on liability similar to those under this Act.
Accountability and Responsibility in Contracting Act - Prohibits any acquiring corporation or any subsidiary of any such a corporation that enters into a corporate expatriation transaction from being eligible to be awarded a Federal contract for a three-year period, unless the acquiring corporation reorganizes as a domestic corporation under the applicable incorporation laws of a State. Prohibits any entity and any entity with a foreign subsidiary doing business with a state sponsor of terrorism or foreign terrorist organization from being eligible to be awarded a Federal contract for a period of: (1) three years for a first offense, (2) ten years for a second offense. And (3) 15 years for any offense after a second offense. Directs each executive agency to require certification from a current contractor that the contractor, the contractor's domestic parent company and all other domestic subsidiaries of the parent did not do business, and did not own a foreign subsidiary that did business, during the ten-year period ending on this Act's enactment with such a state sponsor or organization. Directs each executive agency to require certification from a potential contractor, that the potential contractor, the potential contractor's domestic parent company, and all other domestic subsidiaries of the parent is not doing business, and does not own a foreign subsidiary that is doing business, or has done business within the last ten years, with such a state sponsor or organization. Permits citizens to file complaints with executive agencies regarding Federal contractors and requires annual reporting on the complaints to Congress.
Restoring the 10th Amendment Act Authorizes a designated state official to submit to the head of a federal agency proposing a rule, during the period when the proposed rule is open for public comment, a legal brief challenging the constitutionality of the rule under the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution. Directs the agency head: (1) to notify the designated official of each state within 15 days after such a brief was submitted. (2) to post prominently on the front page of the agency's website a link to the brief. And (3) within 15 days after posting such link, to certify in writing that such rulemaking does not violate the Tenth Amendment and post the certification prominently on the agency's website next to the briefs pertaining to the rule, unless the agency determines not to finalize such proposed rule. Authorizes a designated state official, at any time after an agency head posts such a certification, to commence a civil action against the agency on the grounds that the rule violates the Tenth Amendment. Permits such state official, in addition to any other venue or jurisdiction provided by law, to bring such action in the US district court for the district in which the official's place of business is located. Directs the appropriate US court of appeals, upon the filing of a notice by a designated state official, to grant expedited review of a decision by the district court in such an action.
Student Health Insurance Portability Protection Act of 1997 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to apply health insurance portability, access, and renewability requirements to coverage offered in connection with a college-sponsored health plan as they apply to a group health plan. Amends the Public Health Service Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue Code to include coverage under a college-sponsored plan in the definition of creditable coverage.
Medicare Improvements for Special Needs Beneficiaries Act of 2002 - Amends part C (MedicareChoice) of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for specialized MedicareChoice plans for special needs beneficiaries and the treatment of such plans as coordinated care plans under Medicare part C. Permits restriction on the enrollment of individuals in a specialized MedicareChoice plan to special needs beneficiaries. Establishes additional requirements for specialized Medicarechoice plans for special needs beneficiaries.
Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse a one-time payment equal to 60 sic of the total annual amount of their benefits under Social Security, SSI , the railroad retirement benefits program, and the veterans disability compensation or pension benefits program to recipients of such benefits if no cost-of-living adjustment is payable in 2011.
Clean Air and Water Preservation Act of 2001 - Amends the Clean Air Act to prohibit the use of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) as a fuel additive. Makes such prohibition effective three years after this Act's enactment date. Amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the Administrator to amend certain guidelines to require State source water assessment programs to be revised to prioritize groundwater areas and aquifers that have been contaminated, or are most vulnerable to contamination, by MTBE. Revises the oxygen content requirement for reformulated gasoline under the Clean Air Act to require the oxygen content to equal or exceed an average of two percent by weight . Invalidates Federal regulations that establish a per-gallon minimum oxygen content . Limits the hydrocarbon content of reformulated gasoline to the average content of such gasoline sold in covered nonattainment areas during the year 2000. Expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should promote renewable ethanol to replace MTBE and encourage oil refiners to make the transition from MTBE-blended fuel to ethanol-blended fuel as soon as possible.
Opal Creek Forest Preserve Act of 1994 - Establishes the Opal Creek Forest Preserve consisting of Federal lands in the Willamette and Mt. Hood National Forests, Oregon. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to prepare a Preserve management plan. Prohibits, with specified exceptions: (1) mining, mineral, and geothermal leasing or dispositions, (2) logging or other timber harvesting, (3) off road motorized travel. And (4) road construction and the use of specified existing roads. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire private lands within the Preserve.
Arsenic-Treated Wood Prohibition Act - Amends the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to promulgate regulations prohibiting the use of arsenic-treated wood in the manufacture of any product that may be used for or by children or for mulch, compost, a soil amendment, certain other construction and utility uses, and additional uses as determined to be appropriate. Requires the Administrator to conduct an assessment of the risks posed by the production, processing, and use of CCA-treated wood . Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to: (1) list arsenic-treated wood as a hazardous waste. And (2) require disposal of discarded arsenic-treated wood in a lined landfill with a leachate system and groundwater monitoring system. Requires the Administrator to: (1) develop and conduct an educational program to assist consumers, State and local governments, school systems, and other institutions in testing arsenic levels and making decisions concerning arsenic-treated wood containment, removal, and decontamination. And (2) establish a pilot program of grants and technical assistance to assist school systems in removal of playground and other equipment containing arsenic-treated wood and remediation activities. Requires the Consumer Product Safety Commission to report to Congress on its efforts to identify measures for reducing children's exposure to arsenic from products or structures constructed with arsenic-treated wood that will remain in use after the prohibition established by this Act.
Motor Vehicle Owners' Right to Repair Act of 2005 - Requires a manufacturer of a motor vehicle sold or introduced into commerce in the United States to disclose to the vehicle owner or to a repair facility of the motor vehicle owner's choosing the information necessary to diagnose, service, or repair the vehicle. Sets forth protections for trade secrets. Instructs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prescribe a uniform methodology for manufacturer disclosure in writing and on the Internet. Prohibits the FTC from prescribing rules that interfere with the authority of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding motor vehicle emissions control diagnostics systems. States that manufacturer noncompliance with this Act constitutes an unfair method of competition and an unfair or deceptive act or practice affecting commerce within the purview of the Federal Trade Commission Act.
This bill provides continuing FY2017 appropriations to most federal agencies until the earlier of December 9, 2016, or the enactment of the applicable appropriations legislation. It prevents a government shutdown that would otherwise occur when FY2017 begins on October 1, 2016, because the FY2017 appropriations bills that fund the federal government have not been enacted. The bill specifies the rates of operations for security and nonsecurity programs for the duration of the continuing appropriations. The bill enacts, by reference, the provisions of the conference report for H. R. 2577 . American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 or the American SAFE Act of 2015 The Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence must take specified actions to ensure that certain aliens from Iraq or Syria receive thorough background investigations and are certified not to be a security threat prior to being admitted to the United States as refugees. Protecting Internet Freedom Act The Department of Commerce may not allow the National Telecommunications and Information Administration's responsibility for Internet domain name system functions to cease unless a federal statute enacted after enactment of this bill expressly grants Commerce the authority. Commerce must certify to Congress that the United States: (1) secured sole ownership of the . gov and . mil top-level domains, and (2) entered into a contract with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers that provides the US government with exclusive control and use of those domains in perpetuity.
Swine Waste Infrastructure and Natural Environment Act or the SWINE Act This bill establishes a program to certify environmentally sustainable swine waste disposal technologies and authorizes related tax credits and grants. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) must certify technologies that: eliminate animal discharge into surface waters and groundwater through direct discharge, seepage, or runoff, substantially eliminate atmospheric emissions of ammonia from swine waste. Substantially eliminate the emission of odor from swine waste that is detectable beyond the boundaries of the parcel or tract of land on which the swine farm is located. Substantially eliminate the release of disease-transmitting vectors and airborne pathogens from swine waste. Substantially eliminate nutrient and heavy metal contamination of soil and groundwater from swine waste. And are cost-effective. States may not issue permits, pursuant to any federal law, to a swine farm that is a concentrated animal feeding operation unless the farm disposes of swine waste using a certified technology. The bill amends several agricultural laws to: require USDA to make competitive grants for activities to identify, evaluate, and demonstrate environmentally superior swine waste management technologies. Permit the Pork Promotion Board to use its funding for activities related to the grants. And make the installation and maintenance of a certified technology on a swine farm eligible for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program. The bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow tax credits for: (1) the installation of a certified swine waste disposal technology, and (2) the disposal of swine waste using certified technology.
Welfare and Medicaid Responsibility Exchange Act of 1994 - Provides for the termination of AFDC , JOBS , WIC , and food stamp programs after FY 1995, shifting financial responsibility to the States for providing similar assistance to low-income individuals, with such assistance paid for out of a reduction in the State's share of Medicaid funding equivalent to the Federal welfare savings. Federalizes the Medicaid program after FY 2000, relieving States of their administrative or financial responsibility for it.
Flint Hills Preservation Act - Amends the Clean Air Act to require states and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in determining whether an exceedance or violation of a national ambient air quality standard has occurred with respect to a specific air pollutant, to exclude data from a particular air quality monitoring location if emissions from prescribed fires in the Flint Hills Region cause a concentration of the air pollutant at the location to be in excess of the standard. Prohibits, if such emission data is excluded: (1) the Administrator from finding that a state has failed to enforce, or that a person has violated, a state implementation plan (SIP) for national primary or secondary ambient air quality standards as a result of such emissions. Or (2) a state from finding that a person has violated, or from bringing an enforcement action for violation of, a SIP for such standards as a result of such emissions. Prohibits: (1) the Administrator from requiring, or a state from adopting, a smoke management plan under such Act in connection with any prescribed fire in such region. And (2) a building, structure, facility, or installation from being treated as a stationary source under new stationary source performance standards as a result of such prescribed fires. Provides that no person shall be required to obtain or modify an operating permit under Title V of the Clean Air Act in connection with such a prescribed fire.
Employee Free Choice Act of 2016 This bill amends the National Labor Relations Act to require the National Labor Relations Board to certify, without an election, an individual or labor organization to be the exclusive representative of the employees in a unit appropriate for bargaining if a majority of the employees has signed valid authorizations designating the individual or labor organization specified in a properly filed petition as their bargaining representative, and no other individual or labor organization is currently certified or recognized as the exclusive representative of any of the employees in the unit. The Board shall develop guidelines and procedures for the designation by employees of a bargaining representative. Whenever collective bargaining is for the purpose of establishing an initial agreement involving a newly organized or certified employee representative, the requirements for bargaining collectively shall be modified. The parties shall meet to bargain collectively within 10 days after the employer receives a written request. The Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) shall use its best efforts, by mediation and conciliation, to bring the parties to agreement if 90 days lapse without settlement of a dispute. If such efforts fail for 30 days, the FMCS shall refer the dispute to an arbitration panel, whose decision shall bind the parties for two years, unless the parties consent to a different time period. The preliminary investigation of charges involving employer discrimination or unfair labor practices while employees of that employer were seeking representation by a labor organization shall be made forthwith and given priority over all other cases except cases of like character in the office where the charge is filed or to which it is referred. The Board shall award an employee back pay and, in addition, twice that amount as liquidated damages if it finds that the employer has discriminated against the employee either during the period while the employer's employees were seeking representation by a labor organization, or during the period from the time a labor organization was recognized as a representative until the first collective bargaining contract between the employer and the representative was entered into. Any employer who willfully or repeatedly commits any unfair labor practice during these periods shall, in addition to any make-whole remedy ordered, be subject to a civil penalty of up to $20,000 for each violation.
Rebuild American Manufacturing Act of 2013 - Directs the President to develop a comprehensive national manufacturing strategy. Requires to be included in such strategy: (1) short- and long-term goals for US manufacturing, (2) a survey of all persons with headquarters in the United States that maintain manufacturing facilities outside the United States, (3) a survey of all federal agencies that provide assistance to US manufacturers, (4) a survey of manufacturing goods produced in the United States and where such goods are produced, (5) the number of people in the United States employed by manufacturers operating in the United States, and (6) an evaluation of the global competitiveness of US manufacturing. Directs the President to: (1) include in such strategy recommendations for achieving its goals, and (2) report to Congress on such strategy and any revisions thereto.
Prohibits the Secretary from making the conveyance unless the State agrees to provide public access to the Chapel and the cemetery located on such property. Permits the State to satisfy such condition respecting the chapel by relocating it to Ft. Lyon National Cemetery, Colorado, or another appropriate location jointly selected by the Secretary and the State. Prohibits the Secretary from making the conveyance until: (1) the date on which the Secretary opens not less than three health care facilities, and a nursing home care facility, in Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) 19, which shall serve as replacement facilities for the Medical Center. And (2) the Secretary completes required environmental restoration activities. Authorizes the Secretary to pay the State or any private nursing home care facility for costs incurred in providing nursing home care to any veteran who is relocated from the Medical Center as a result of the Medical Center's closure. States that the authority to pay voluntary separation incentive payments under the Department of Veterans Affairs Employment Reduction Assistance Act of 1999 to employees of the Medical Center shall apply to eligible employees whose separation occurs before June 30, 2001. Requires the Under Secretary for Health of the Department, acting through the Director of VISN 19, not later than one year after the conveyance, to submit to congressional veterans affairs committees a report on the status of the health care system for veterans under VISN in southern Colorado describing any improvements to such system in southern Colorado that have been put into effect since the date of such conveyance.
Global Nuclear Security Initiative Act of 2002 - Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Energy should develop a comprehensive program of activities to encourage all countries with nuclear materials to adhere to, or adopt standards equivalent to, the International Atomic Energy Agency standard on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities relating to the security of stockpiles of highly enriched uranium and plutonium. Directs the Secretary to require the Office of International Materials Protection, Control, and Accounting of the Department of Energy to conduct a study of the feasibility and advisability of developing a program to secure radiological materials outside the United States that pose a threat to US national security. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress on: (1) such study's results. And (2) results of a study by the Secretary of the feasibility and advisability of various actions to reduce the risks associated with terrorist attacks on nuclear power plants outside the United States. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should encourage amendment of the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials to make it: (1) apply to both domestic and international use and transport of nuclear materials. (2) incorporate fundamental practices for the physical protection of such materials, and (3) address protection against sabotage involving nuclear materials.
Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) extend the 2006 and 2007 initial enrollment periods for the Medicare prescription drug benefit, (2) suspend the late enrollment penalty through December 31, 2007. And (3) permit Medicare beneficiaries to change enrollment in a prescription drug plan during the first 12 months of enrollment. Prohibits a PDP sponsor, beginning with 2006, from removing a covered part D drug from the plan formulary, or imposing a restriction or limitation on the coverage of such a drug, other than at the beginning of each plan year, except as the Secretary may permit to take into account new therapeutic uses and newly covered part D drugs. Requires each PDP sponsor to furnish to each plan enrollee, at the time of each annual coordinated election period, a notice of any changes in the formulary or other part D drug coverage restrictions or limitations that will take effect for the upcoming plan year.
Requires the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to establish and maintain a national clearinghouse for information on incidents of crime and terrorism committed against or directed at: (1) any animal enterprise. (2) any commercial activity because of a perceived impact of such activity on the environment. Or (3) any person because of such person's connection with or support of such an enterprise or activity.
Supporting America's Young Entrepreneurs Act of 2016 This bill amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to make eligible for deferment and cancellation under the Federal Direct Loan program a borrower who is an employee or founder of a small business start-up in a distressed area. It also amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from an individual's gross income the amount of such canceled student loan debt. The bill establishes a Federal Direct Refinanced Private Loan program to refinance private education loans. Finally, it establishes a young entrepreneurs business center within the Small Business Administration to certify small business start-ups, identify distressed areas, and approve loan cancelation for founders of small business start-ups.
Bodegas as Catalysts for Healthy Living Act - Directs the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to make grants to local organizations that represent small business concerns and local redevelopment agencies to assist: (1) independently owned and operated small businesses, such as bodegas and corner stores, in expanding their inventories to include fresh fruits and vegetables and healthy alternatives. And (2) community-based organizations, such as community health centers, in carrying out consumer outreach and education programs to encourage the purchase of fresh fruits, vegetables, and healthy alternatives and to inform communities about health risks and the benefits of healthy living. Requires small businesses and community-based organizations to collaborate in carrying out the purposes of this Act. Limits grant amounts to $100,000. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) and title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to cover additional primary and preventive services relating to obesity treatment and prevention, supervised exercise sessions, stress testing, lifestyle modification education, and nutrition education.
Sport Fish Restoration and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2015 This bill amends the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act to reauthorize through FY2020 appropriations from the Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund for various fish, boating, and coastal wetlands restoration programs. The bill also revises amounts allocated from the Fund to various programs, including amounts for programs concerning: (1) coastal wetlands, (2) boating safety, and (3) boating infrastructure. A separate amount is set aside each fiscal year through FY2020 for the Coast Guard's administration of the national recreational boating safety program. When the President submits a budget for FY2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, the US Fish and Wildlife Service must submit an assessment of the administrative services it provides under the Act to states and the sportfishing community.
Reach Every Mother and Child Act of 2017 This bill directs the President to: establish a five-year strategy to achieve, with target countries and donors, the goal of ending preventable child and maternal deaths globally and ensure healthy and productive lives by 2030. And provide assistance to implement the strategy. The President shall designate a current US Agency for International Development (USAID) employee serving in the Senior Executive Service or at the level of a Deputy Assistant Administrator or higher to serve concurrently as the Maternal and Child Survival Coordinator, who shall be responsible for: overseeing such strategy, and all US government funds appropriated or used for international maternal and child health and nutrition programs. Strategy grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements shall include targets for increased implementation of high-impact, evidence-based interventions and strengthening health systems. The President shall report to Congress annually for six years regarding progress made toward achieving the strategy and ending preventable child and maternal deaths.
Environmental Export Promotion Act of 1994 - Amends the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to direct the Secretary of Commerce to establish the Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee to advise and guide the Environmental Trade Promotion Working Group in the development and administration of programs to expand US exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services. Requires the Working Group to assess annually which foreign countries have markets with the greatest potential for such exports, and select five of them as priority countries for the application of US Government export promotion resources. Requires the Working Group to create annual plans for each priority country, detailing ways to increase US environmental exports to such country. Directs the Secretary to assign a specialist in environmental technologies to the office of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service in each of the five priority countries, and authorize similar assignments in any countries that are promising markets for such exports. Specifies the duties of such specialists. Requires the Secretary to establish: (1) a mechanism to give environmental technology and international environmental marketplace training to Commercial Service Officers assigned to one-stop shops and to district offices in districts with large numbers of environmental businesses. And (2) ensure that such officers receive appropriate training under such mechanism. Directs the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC) to establish not less than one international regional environmental initiative to coordinate Federal activities to build environmental partnerships between the United States and the geographic region outside the United States for which such an initiative is established. Specifies TPCC activities in carrying out such initiative. Directs the Working Group to maintain an environmental technologies project advocacy calendar, updated quarterly, identifying and providing information on significant project opportunities for US environmental businesses in foreign markets and trade promotion events. Authorizes the Secretary to provide matching funds for the establishment in the United States of regional environmental business and technology cooperation centers that will draw upon the expertise of the private sector, institutions of higher education, and existing Federal programs to provide export promotion assistance related to environmental technologies, goods, and services.
Disaster Recovery Personal Protection Act of 2006 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to prohibit any US officer or employee, or person operating under color of federal law, under control of a federal official, or providing services to such person, while acting in support of relief from a major disaster or emergency, from: (1) seizing, or authorizing seizure of, any firearm the possession of which is not prohibited under federal or state law, other than for forfeiture in compliance with federal law or as evidence in a criminal investigation. (2) requiring registration of any firearm for which registration is not required by federal or state law. (3) prohibiting possession of any firearm in any place or by any person where such possession is not otherwise prohibited. Or (4) prohibiting the carrying of a firearm by any person otherwise authorized to carry firearms, solely because such person is operating under the direction, control, or supervision of a federal agency in support of relief from a major disaster or emergency. Authorizes any individual aggrieved by a violation of this Act to seek relief by bringing an action for redress and by bringing a civil action in US district court for return of a confiscated firearm.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the United Nations Human Rights Council should: (1) be a body that upholds the ideals enumerated in the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, (2) allow full participation by Israel in Council operations. And (3) be made up of countries that hold regular democratic elections, permit freedom of expression, and have a credible civil society. Expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should not support the Council, and should withhold financial support for the Council until meaningful human rights reforms are carried out. Directs the Secretary of State to withhold from a US contribution to a regularly assessed biennial U. N. budget an amount equal to the percentage of such contribution that the Secretary determines would be allocated by the United Nations to the Council.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to treat United States cruise industry income as effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States . Defines quot, United States cruise industry incomequot. As income attributable to a voyage of a commercial passenger cruise vessel that extends over 1 or more nights and during which passengers embark or disembark the vessel in the United States. Prohibits any tax exemption or reduced tax rate under any US treaty with respect to United States cruise industry income.
San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge Complex Establishment Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish the San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge Complex as an urban ecosystem wildlife refuge and to publish notice of its establishment in the Federal Register. Establishes boundaries for the Refuge Complex and authorizes the Secretary to make corrections to its boundaries. Repeals Public Law 92-330 as of the date on which the Secretary publishes notice of the establishment of the Refuge Complex in the Federal Register.
Sikes Act Amendments Act of 2011 - Amends the Sikes Act to include under such Act's coverage state-owned facilities used for National Guard training. Authorizes the Secretary of a military department to develop and implement an integrated natural resources management plan for a state-owned National Guard installation.
Concussion Awareness and Education Act of 2015 Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to: (1) establish and oversee a national system to accurately determine the incidence of sports-related concussions among youth, and (2) begin implementation of such system within one year of this Act's enactment. Requires the data collected to include: the incidence of sports related concussions in individuals 5 through 21 years of age, demographic information of the injured individuals, pre-existing conditions of the injured individuals, the concussion history of the injured individuals, the use of protective equipment and impact monitoring devices, the qualifications of personnel diagnosing the concussions. And the cause, nature, and extent of the concussive injury. Requires the National Institutes of Health to conduct or support: research designed to inform the creation of guidelines for the management of short- and long-term sequelae of concussion in youth. Research on the effects of concussions and repetitive head impacts on quality of life and the activities of daily living. Research to identify predictors, and modifiers of outcomes, of concussions in youth. And research on age- and sex-related biomechanical determinants of injury risk for concussion in youth. Requires CDC to develop and disseminate to the public information regarding concussions. Establishes a Concussion Research Commission, which shall study the programs and activities conducted pursuant to this Act and formulate systemic recommendations to increase knowledge about, and change the culture surrounding, concussions.
Asset Forfeiture Responsibility Act of 2011 - Establishes the Fisheries Investment Fund as a separate account in the general fund of the Treasury where all sums received by the United States as fines, penalties, and forfeitures of property for violations of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act or any other marine resource law enforced by the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) shall be deposited and remain available until expended. Directs that fees deposited in the Fund be used to: (1) reimburse reasonable attorneys' fees to a person that the Secretary has directed to be remitted a fisheries enforcement penalty as recommended in the report of Special Master Swartwood or a person that submitted a complaint to the Special Master prior to May 7, 2011, seeking remittance of a fisheries enforcement penalty and whom the Secretary directs to receive at least a portion of such remittance. And (2) conduct Fund audits and specified enforcement and monitoring activities under provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens Act amended by this Act. Authorizes the Secretary, during FY2012-FY2013, to reimburse reasonable attorneys' fees to such a person. Directs a person to apply for such reimbursement within 60 days after the Secretary directs a fisheries enforcement penalty be remitted to that person. Allows the Secretary to pay from sums appropriated from the Fund for monitoring activities selected by the Regional Fishery Management Councils, including at-sea observers and shoreside monitoring, preparing fishery impact statements, and other priorities established by a Council as necessary to rebuild or maintain sustainable fisheries, ensure healthy ecosystems, and maintain fishing communities. Removes a provision allowing expenses directly related to investigations and civil or criminal enforcement proceedings, including related expenses necessary for equipment, training, travel, witnesses, and contracting services, to be paid from sums received as fines, penalties, and forfeitures of property for violations of the Magnuson-Stevens Act or any other fishery resource law enforced by the Secretary. Authorizes certain other costs and enforcement expenses to be paid from sums appropriated from the Fund.
Health Care Coverage Assistance for the Unemployed Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of Labor to establish an emergency health coverage assistance program to provide premium assistance for qualified individuals for Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA) continuation coverage under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Allows a State to elect to provide temporary Medicaid coverage for individuals who are: (1) eligible for unemployment benefits, (2) not eligible for COBRA continuation coverage. And (3) not covered under a group health plan, health insurance, Medicare, or Medicaid.
Directs the Secretary of the Army, in order to decrease the incidence of fish entering water supply systems and decrease fish mortality associated with withdrawal of water for irrigation and other purposes, to develop and implement a comprehensive program for fish screens, fish passage devices, and other measures agreed to by local interests and relevant Federal agencies for water diversions by local government entities in Oregon, Washington, Montana, and Idaho that provide water supplies. Sets forth program and reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations.
Affordable Medicines Utilization Act of 2011 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA), with respect to FY2012-FY2014, to require an increase in the quarterly Medicaid payment to a state by 50 of the generic drug utilization savings amount if the state's generic substitution rate for the most recent preceding fiscal year for which data is available is greater than its rate for the most recent second preceding fiscal year for which data is available. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to determine the state's generic substitution rate for such fiscal years. Defines generic substitution rate as the share of all drug units for which Medicaid payment is made to a state for the 20 most widely prescribed multiple source drugs under the state program that have a specific National Drug Code. Directs the Secretary to provide for payments to eligible states for implementation of programs to achieve reductions in expenditures under Medicaid or under SSA title XVIII (Medicare) .
Camera Accountability Maintenance and Transparency in Policing Act of 2017 or the CAM TIP Act of 2017 This bill amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to establish a grant program for state, local, and tribal governments to acquire, operate, and maintain body-worn cameras for law enforcement officers. Additionally, it establishes a task force in the Department of Justice (DOJ) to provide recommendations on community policing, including best practices for accountability and transparency. DOJ must study the cost to purchase and use body-worn cameras. Finally, the Government Accountability Office must study and report on the Department of Defense Excess Personal Property Program.
Amends the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to direct the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to: (1) develop an independent safety assessment procedure for nuclear facilities. And (2) create a team to inspect the design, construction, maintenance, and operational safety performance of a facility. Declares that a final NRC decision on whether to extend an operating license, approve an extended power uprate, or continue to operate a facility shall not be made until: (1) the NRC has completed the independent safety assessment of the facility. And (2) the licensee has fully accepted and implemented each NRC-approved finding and recommendation of the assessment report
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants, through the Program, for: (1) assisting school districts to implement this Act's purpose. (2) administering the program of assistance to school districts under this Act. And (3) promoting participation by school districts in the Program. Requires grants to assist school districts to be used to achieve energy efficiency performance not less than 30 percent beyond the levels prescribed in the 1998 International Energy Conservation Code as it is in effect for new construction and existing buildings. Requires such grants to be made to school districts that: (1) need to respond appropriately to increasing elementary and secondary school enrollments or to make major investments in renovation of school facilities. (2) do not have adequate funds to do so without such assistance. And (3) are committed to using grant funds to develop high performance school buildings in accordance with an approved plan. Requires grants for administration to be used to evaluate compliance by school districts with requirements of this Act. Allows such grants also to be used to: (1) distribute information and materials to define and promote development of high performance school buildings for new and existing facilities. (2) organize and conduct programs for school board members, school district personnel, architects, engineers, and others to advance the concepts of such buildings. (3) obtain technical services and assistance in planning and designing such buildings. And (4) collect and monitor data and information pertaining to such building projects. Allows grants to promote participation to be used for promotional and marketing activities, including facilitating private and public financing, promoting the use of energy service companies, working with school administrations, students, and communities, and coordinating public benefit programs. Allows grants under this Act to be provided only to school districts that have developed plans that the State agency designated by the Governor of the State determines to be feasible and appropriate. Requires such State agency to encourage qualifying school districts to supplement their grant funds with funds from other sources in the implementation of their plans. Requires funds appropriated for the implementation of this Act, with the exception of certain reserved funds, to be provided to the Governors of the States. Directs each Governor to determine the appropriate State agency to administer the program of assistance to school districts. Allocates such funds as follows: (1) 70 percent for grants to assist school districts, (2) 15 percent for grants for administration. And (3) 15 percent for grants to promote participation. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to retain, through the Program, a limited annual amount to assist State agencies designated by the Governor in coordinating and implementing such Program. Allows funds to be used to develop reference materials to further define the principles and criteria to achieve high performance school buildings. Authorizes appropriations.
Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agreements Transparency Act of 2018 or the GREAT Act This bill requires the Office of Management and Budget, jointly withnbsp. The executive department that issues the most federal grant awards, to: (1)nbsp. Establish government-wide data standards for information reported by grant recipients, (2) issue guidance directing federal agencies to apply those standards, and (3)nbsp. Require the publication of recipient-reported data collected from all agencies on a single public website.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to discharge or cancel the Federal student loan indebtedness of spouses, surviving joint debtors, and parents of public servants and other individuals who died or who became permanently and totally disabled from injuries suffered in the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001.
Livestock Concentration Report Act - Establishes a Commission on Concentration in the Livestock Industry composed of the Secretary of Agriculture, cattle, hog, and lamb producers, meat packers, corporate representatives, economists, and antitrust experts to review: (1) the adequacy of the study of concentration in the red meat packing industry. (2) the impact of antitrust, coordination, and other laws affecting the meat packing industry, (3) certain farm-to-retail and other price related data, (4) a specified lamb study. And (5) certain hog processing activities. Requires the Commission to report to the Congress within a specified time, and terminates the Commission within a specified time after such submission.
Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) make permanent the work opportunity tax credit, the new markets tax credit, and the tax credit for increasing research activities. (2) make permanent accelerated depreciation of qualified leasehold improvement and restaurant property and expensing of environmental remediation expenditures. (3) increase the partial tax exclusion of gain from sales of certain small business stock for noncorporate business taxpayers and businesses in an empowerment zone. (4) permit certain small businesses to elect taxable years ending between April and November. (5) increase the allowable number of S corporation shareholders from 100 to 150. And (6) exempt certain small businesses from the 3 withholding requirement applicable to payments made to such businesses by government entities.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense (DOD), and the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) with respect to the Coast Guard, should duly honor those members of the Armed Forces who are killed or wounded in the United States in terrorist attacks that are inspired by the ideology that gives rise to terrorism, as defined by the Final Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States. Provides that, for purposes of awarding the Purple Heart, the Secretary of the military department concerned shall treat a member of the Armed Forces who is killed or wounded in a terrorist attack within the United States in the same manner as a member killed or wounded in action due to an act of an enemy of the United States. Makes this Act effective as of January 1, 2009. Directs the Secretaries concerned to: (1) review each death or wounding of a member within the United States between January 1, 2009, and the date of enactment of this Act to determine whether such death or wounding qualifies as a death or wounding resulting from a terrorist attack for purposes of this Act, and (2) upon a positive determination, take appropriate action.
Health Research Act of 1994 - Establishes in the Treasury the National Fund for Health Research. Requires regional and corporate health alliances formed under a comprehensive health care reform program to set aside and transfer specified amounts each calendar year into the Fund. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to authorize individuals to designate for payment into the Fund at least $1 of a cash contribution or of any tax overpayment made. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to distribute specified amounts from the Fund for various health research activities of the National Institutes of Health and the National Center for Research Resources. Excludes Fund amounts from any budget enforcement procedures under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 or the Balanced Budget Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 .
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on December 9, 2014. Aviation Security Stakeholder Participation Act of 2014 - Directs the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security to establish in the TSA an aviation security advisory committee. Requires the Assistant Secretary to consult with the Advisory Committee on aviation security matters. Requires the Advisory Committee to develop, upon the Assistant Secretary's request, recommendations to improve aviation security. Requires the Assistant Secretary to appoint to the Advisory Committee members representing up to 34 member organizations, including air carriers, all-cargo air transportation, indirect air carriers, labor organizations representing air carrier employees as well as those representing transportation security officers, aircraft manufacturers, airport operators, airport construction and maintenance contractors as well as labor organizations representing them, general aviation, privacy organizations, the travel industry, airport-based businesses, businesses that conduct security operations at airports, aeronautical repair stations, passenger advocacy groups, the aviation security technology industry , victims of terrorist acts against aviation, and law enforcement and security experts. Establishes within the Advisory Committee: (1) an air cargo security subcommittee, (2) a general aviation subcommittee, (3) an airport perimeter security and access control subcommittee. And (4) a security technology subcommittee. Requires all subcommittees to consider risk-based security approaches in the performance of their functions with respect to transportation security.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Agriculture Programs Title II: Energy and Water Programs Title III: Interior Programs Title IV: Foreign Operations Programs Title V: Transportation Programs Omnibus Corporate Welfare Reduction Act of 1997 - Title I: Agriculture Programs - Repeals the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (REA), provisions of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 relating to adjusting the repayment schedules on REA loans, and provisions of Federal law regarding: (1) congressional policy concerning making funds available to rural electric and telephone systems, (2) congressional policy with respect to rural telephone system financing. (3) loan programs under the Rural Electrification and Telephone Revolving Fund. And (4) rural advanced telecommunications. Rescinds related unobligated balances. Repeals provisions of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 regarding an agricultural commodity export promotion program. Title II: Energy and Water Programs - Prohibits obligating or spending funds for the Animas-La Plata Project, Colorado and New Mexico, except regarding alternatives that would satisfy the water rights interests of the Ute Mountain Ute Indian Tribe and the Southern Ute Indian Tribe. Declares that the Congress is concerned about the pyroprocessing program and should not proceed with a liquid metal reactor program. Amends provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 relating to advanced nuclear reactors to remove references to liquid metal reactors. Title III: Interior Programs - Prohibits the Department of Energy from conducting any fossil energy research and development, except as required by contracts entered into before enactment of this Act and as necessary to terminate ongoing activities. Authorizes appropriations. Amends Federal law commonly known as the National Forest Roads and Trails Act to modify requirements regarding the construction of forest development roads. Declares that it is the sense of the Congress that the full cost of forest road design, construction, and maintenance should be recovered through user fees. Prohibits fund obligation for the Clean Coal Technology program. Repeals, subject to exception, related appropriations from an appropriations Act for FY 1986 and rescinds any related unobligated funds. Title IV: Foreign Operations Programs - Abolishes the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) and repeals related provisions. Requires that the Office of Management and Budget perform OPIC functions on certain existing contracts until their expiration. Prohibits contract renewal. Deposits unexpended balances in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts. Sets forth findings regarding the International Monetary Fund and its Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). Declares that it is the sense of the Congress that the United States should not participate in the latest round of General Agreements to Borrow or provide additional resources to the ESAF. Title V: Transportation Programs - Expresses the sense of the Congress that highway demonstration projects should not be required by Federal law. Repeals provisions of the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 authorizing the Appalachian development highway system.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to local educational agencies (LEAs) to award nontaxable bonuses to highly qualified individuals who agree to teach in elementary schools or secondary schools that are served by the LEA and located in high poverty areas. Requires such grants to be made to at least 50 LEAs per fiscal year, and to at least one eligible LEA in each State, for a period of not less than four years. Sets forth requirements relating to: (1) LEA, school, and individual eligibility, (2) grant and bonus amounts. (3) a competitive award process based on objective measures and recommendations from higher education institutions, and (4) service obligations or award repayment. Authorizes appropriations.
End Federal Shutdowns Act of 2018 This bill provides specified continuing appropriations to prevent a government shutdown if any regular appropriations bill for a fiscal year has not been enacted or a joint resolution making continuing appropriations is not in effect after the fiscal year begins. The appropriations are provided to continue to fund projects and activities for which funds were provided in the preceding fiscal year.
Transportation Efficiency Act - Directs the President to create a National Intermodal Transportation Planning Task Force to: (1) study the nation's transportation needs and priorities for the next 30 years, (2) convene a conference on National Transportation Planning. And (3) draft a National Intermodal Transportation plan that includes short- and long-term goals for meeting those priorities and improving intermodal transportation planning for all modes of the national transportation system.
Veterans Conservation Corps Authorization Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a veteran conservation corps (corps) to: (1) provide training and employment to unemployed veterans not enrolled in any other federal training program, (2) assist veterans in their transition from military service to civilian life, and (3) assist the government in maintaining federal land and water. Directs the Secretary to employ such veterans for a one-year period, with an option for employment for an additional one-year period. Allows the Secretary to establish a corps program for the short-term employment of veterans attending institutions of higher education. Directs the Secretary to establish a program to provide to such veterans any education or training necessary to carry out assigned work projects.
Unfair Foreign Competition Act of 2007 - Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to authorize a petitioning party, in an antidumping or countervailing duty investigation, to elect, within 30 days after the investigation has started, to bring a civil action in a US district court for determination that a US industry is materially injured or is threatened with material injury, or the establishment of an industry in the United States is materially retarded, by reason of imports, or sales for importation, of the merchandise subject to the investigation, and that imports of the subject merchandise are not negligible. Authorizes such a petitioning party, within 30 days after a five-year review of an antidumping or countervailing duty order is initiated, to bring a civil action in a US district court for determination of whether revocation of the antidumping or countervailing duty order, or termination of a suspended investigation, would likely lead to continuation or recurrence of material injury. Provides for preliminary relief and expedited action. Applies this Act to goods from Canada and Mexico.
Developing Standards for Electronic Shipping Papers Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to establish a Hazardous Materials Information Advisory Committee to develop voluntary standards and best practices for first responders and enforcement officials in the use of electronic shipping papers in the event of a hazardous material transportation incident. Defines the term quot, electronic shipping paperquot. As an electronic version of the physical shipping paper conveying the most current available hazard information and capable of being accessed instantaneously by emergency responders during such an incident.
Prosthetic and Custom Orthotic Parity Act of 2009 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to require a group health plan that provides medical and surgical benefits as well as benefits for prosthetic devices and components and orthotic devices to offer such prosthetic and orthotic coverage in the same manner as applicable to medical and surgical benefits. Prohibits separate financial requirements or more restrictive treatment limitations. Limits required benefits for prosthetic devices and custom orthotic devices and related services to the most appropriate model that adequately meets the medical requirements of the patient. Requires benefits to include repairs and replacements as determined appropriate by the treating physician. Prohibits any annual or lifetime dollar limitation on benefits for prosthetic devices and custom orthotic devices and related services unless such limitation applies in the aggregate to all benefits.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for up to $3,000 of the amount paid or incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year for qualified child disability expenses for services and equipment related to education and training of a child of the taxpayer with a developmental disability, including behavioral therapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, auditory therapy, assistive communication technology, and other related services. Phases out the credit by $500 increments per $1,000 of modified adjusted gross income over $150,000.
Conflicts from Political Fundraising Act of 2017 This bill amends the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to revise financial disclosure requirements for federal personnel, including: (1) the disclosure of contributions made or solicited by, or on behalf of, individuals nominated or appointed to high level executive positions or to positions of a confidential or policymaking character to political action committees and tax-exempt social welfare or business organizations. And (2) the disclosure of certain gifts to appointees, their spouses, or dependent children. The Office of Government Ethics shall, upon request, provide to the Chairman or Ranking Member of a House or Senate committee or subcommittee with jurisdiction over the agency to which an individual has been nominated or appointed to a covered position or is serving in a covered position, each financial disclosure report filed by such individual and any ethics agreement entered into between the agency and the individual. The office shall issue rules on how an executive branch agency shall address conflicts of interest identified in disclosures through ethics agreements between the agency and its appointees.
Housing Affordability for Teachers and Public Safety Officers Act of 2005 - Amends the National Housing Act to provide for one percent downpayments for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) mortgage loans for qualified elementary and secondary school teachers, teacher assistants, and administrators and public safety officers to purchase homes within the jurisdictions of their employing agencies. Authorizes program suspension for fraud or program integrity issues. Limits aggregate mortgages insured under such program to 50,000. Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to carry out a mortgage assistance pilot program to assist federal, state, and local public safety officers purchase primary residences in locally-designated at-risk areas. Authorizes program suspension for fraud or program integrity issues. Prohibits application approvals after the expiration of the three-year period beginning on the date that the Secretary first makes program assistance available.
Cures Can Be Found Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow tax credits for donations: (1) to stem cell research or storage facilities. (2) of umbilical cord blood. Allows credits only for donations to facilities that do not engage in research on stem cells derived from human embryos. Allows a business tax credit for stem cell research and storage expenses.
Benefit Rating Acceleration for Veteran Entitlements Act of 2007 - Amends titles II (OASDI) and XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act to treat as a disability for OASDI and SSI disability payment purposes any service-connected total disability, as rated and certified by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Applies the same treatment to related child's insurance and widow's and widower's insurance benefits.
Promise for Antibiotics and Therapeutics for Health Act or the PATH Act - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a program to approve an antibacterial drug intended to treat a serious medical condition and address an unmet medical need within an identifiable limited population as a limited population antibacterial drug. Requires the sponsor of a drug eligible for approval as a limited population antibacterial drug to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the drug for its intended use. Requires an HHS determination of the safety and effectiveness of a limited population antibacterial drug to reflect the drug's benefit-risk profile in the intended limited population. Prohibits a lack of evidence of a favorable benefit-risk profile in a broader population from resulting in a denial of approval. Directs HHS to require: (1) the labeling of a limited population antibacterial drug to indicate that the drug has been approved for use only in a limited population, and (2) submission of promotional materials related to the drug prior to dissemination. Directs HHS to describe considerations for demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of limited population antibacterial drugs and how the limited population pathway can be expanded to other therapeutic areas. Requires HHS to conduct postapproval monitoring programs to study how antibacterial drugs approved through the limited population pathway are used and to monitor changes in bacterial drug resistance. Allows HHS to remove the labeling, marketing, and postapproval monitoring requirements of a limited population antibacterial drug if the drug is approved for broader use. Allows the limited population pathway to be expanded to other drugs intended to treat serious illness beginning October 1, 2016.
Education Savings Account and School Excellence Act of 1999 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to education individual retirement accounts (IRAs), to: (1) permit distributions for qualified elementary and secondary education expenses, including home schooling expenses. And (2) increase the annual contribution limit from $500 to $2,000. Waives the beneficiary age limitation (18) for contributions on behalf of special needs beneficiaries. Permits corporations to contribute to education IRAs.
Third Higher Education Extension Act of 2007 - Amends the Higher Education Extension Act of 2005 to extend the programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965 through March 31, 2008. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to consider trustees acting on behalf of certain governmental or tax-exempt entities as eligible nonprofit holders of Federal Family Education Loans (FFELs), regardless of whether or not such entities are eligible FFEL lenders.
Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention Act of 1995 - Provides for the implementation of the Convention on Future Multilateral Cooperation in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries, including regarding: (1) appointment of US representatives and alternate representatives as Commissioners and on the Scientific Council, (2) handling of requests for scientific advice, (3) the authorities of the Secretary of State. And (4) cooperation between various agencies, the States, private institutions, and organizations. Makes certain actions unlawful, including: (1) violating any regulation issued under this Act or any measure legally binding on the United States under the Convention, (2) resisting, impeding, intimidating, or interfering with certain actions. And (3) transporting, selling, or possessing fish taken in violation of these provisions. Provides for: (1) civil and criminal penalties, permit sanctions, and forfeiture of vessels, cargo, and fish, (2) enforcement by the Coast Guard. And (3) US district court exclusive jurisdiction. Directs the Secretaries of State and Commerce to jointly establish a consultative committee on issues related to the Convention. Authorizes appropriations.
Check the Box for Homeless Veterans Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) establish in the Treasury the Homeless Veterans Assistance Fund. And (2) allow individual taxpayers to designate on their tax returns a specified portion of any overpayment of tax, and to make a contribution of an additonal amount, to be paid over to such Fund to provide services to homeless veterans.
Federal Lands Invasive Species Control, Prevention, and Management Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to plan and carry out activities on lands directly managed by the Secretary concerned to control and manage invasive species in order to inhibit or reduce their populations and to effectuate restoration or reclamation efforts. Requires the Secretary concerned to develop a strategic plan for the implementation of an invasive species program that endeavors to achieve an annual 5 net reduction of invasive species populations on lands managed by that Secretary. Requires the Secretary concerned to use: (1) no less than 75 of funds each fiscal year for on-the-ground control and management of invasive species. (2) no more than 15 of such funds for investigations, development activities, and outreach and public awareness efforts to address invasive species control and management needs. And (3) no more than 10 for administrative costs. Requires the Secretaries, in selecting the method or methods to control or manage an invasive species as part of a specific control or management project, to require the use of the least costly options necessary to perform effectively, based on sound scientific data and other commonly used cost-effective benchmarks in the area.
Veterans Access to Care Accountability Act - Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to conduct random, periodic audits of the medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Veterans Integrated Service Networks to determine if they are in compliance with legal and administrative standards requiring that veterans be provided timely access to health care from the VA. Requires the VA Secretary, upon the receipt of a specified report finding that a veteran has been subjected to a wait time of more than 30 days for health care from the VA, to: (1) notify the veteran, within 48 hours of receiving such report, of the status of the veteran's appointment. And (2) make every possible effort to schedule the veteran's appointment at a VA facility or through a non-VA health care provider on a date not later than 7 days after receiving such report. Requires the VA Inspector General to provide the Secretary with a list of the names of each director or other VA official responsible for activities at a VA medical facility who is found to have purposefully misrepresented patient records or other data in order to: (1) conceal a failure of the facility to comply with VA patient access or care standards, or (2) qualify for a performance award or any other compensation that is in addition to basic pay. Prohibits the Secretary from paying a bonus or award to any director or official on such list until the Secretary determines that all issues relating to the reasons why such director or official was included on such list have been resolved. Directs the Secretary to ensure that any performance review or consideration for promotion of a director or other VA official responsible for activities at a VA medical facility where such misrepresentation has occurred includes an evaluation of whether the director or other official knew or should have known about such misrepresentation. Prohibits the Inspector General from making the names of the individuals on the list public.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) and the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to make AP programs a priority for Javits Gifted and Talented Students, Upward Bound, Eisenhower professional development, Star Schools, and education technology grants. Requires each institution of higher learning receiving HEA assistance to distribute to secondary school counselors or AP coordinators in the State information on academic credit given to students at the institution for AP test scores.
Educators in Military Service Act of 2005 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to extend the deadlines by which state and local educational agencies are required to ensure that teachers or paraprofessional educators are highly qualified in order to account for their applicable periods of military service. Amends the Individuals with Disabilities Act to extend similar deadlines with respect to new special education teachers.
Veterans Mental Health Treatment First Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a program of mental health care and rehabilitation for veterans who: (1) have been discharged or released from active-duty service under conditions other than dishonorable for no more than two years. (2) are enrolled in the VA system of annual patient enrollment and were so enrolled before the date of enactment of this Act. (3) are diagnosed by a VA physician with post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, anxiety disorder, or substance use disorder that is service-related. And (4) agree to certain participation conditions, including not submitting a claim for veterans' disability compensation for any such condition until either one year after program commencement or the conclusion of the prescribed treatment regimen. Requires the Secretary to provide for each participant a treatment regimen and rehabilitation plan for the determined condition. Provides a stipend for participants, commencing upon program commencement, continuing through successful treatment and plan compliance, and ending either upon the conclusion of such treatment or one year after treatment and plan commencement. Allows a veteran to participate more than once in the program if the Secretary determines that the additional participation will assist the veteran in achieving the remediation of the condition.
Small Business Tax Certainty and Growth Act of 2013 - Expresses the sense of the Senate that Congress should undertake comprehensive tax reform to make the tax system fairer and simpler and to promote economic growth. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) make permanent the increased tax deductions for business start-up expenditures, organizational expenditures, and organization and syndication fees. (2) allow the cash accounting method for businesses whose gross receipts do not exceed $10 million. (3) exempt businesses whose gross receipts do not exceed $10 million from the requirement to use inventories. (4) make permanent the $250,000 allowance for expensing business assets, including computer software. (5) extend for one year the additional depreciation allowance for business assets. And (6) extend through 2014 the 15-year straight-line depreciation allowance for qualified leasehold, restaurant, and retail improvements.
Help Extend Auditory Relief (HEAR) Act of 2013 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to cover aural rehabilitation services, hearing aids as durable medical equipment (DME), audiology rehabilitation services, and related hearing services.
Financial Derivatives Supervisory Improvement Act of 1998 - Establishes the Working Group on Financial Derivatives to study and report to the Congress on: (1) the regulation of derivatives markets in which domestic and foreign depository institutions and registered brokers and dealers participate. And (2) any recommendations for modernizing and harmonizing statutes, regulations, and policies. Urges the Group to assign a high priority to continual negotiations to ensure that foreign markets and regulatory bodies establish and maintain regulations comparably prudent to those governing the US markets. Prohibits the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, for a specified time period, without the Secretary of the Treasury's approval, from promulgating or proposing regulations, or issuing any interpretive or policy statements that regulate or restrict activity in certain hybrid instruments and swap agreements. Declares that any such hybrid instruments or swap agreements entered into before such period shall not be subject to the Commodity Exchange Act's restriction of futures contracts or exempted securities.
Bank Regulation Adjustment Act - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to establish a criminal penalty for specified activities pertaining to fraudulent use of credit cards, including obtaining a credit card by fraudulent means. Amends Federal monetary law to mandate annual inflation adjustments with respect to specified transactions for which a domestic financial institution is required to file currency transaction reports. Permits filers of infrequent currency transaction reports to file on a quarterly basis. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to repeal: (1) the due on demand requirement for insider loans to executive bank officers, (2) reporting requirements pertaining to such loans. And (3) the authority of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to assess examination fees against State depository institutions. Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to restrict to Federal depository institutions the assessment of examination fees by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. States that the effective date for banking regulations shall be at the end of the 180-day period beginning on the date the regulation is published in final form in the Federal Register . Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to expand Federal credit union membership from groups having a common bond to groups having common bonds. Declares that any regulation prescribed by the National Credit Union Administration which requires a vote by the membership to approve or disapprove a proposal to transfer credit union deposits to an insured depository institution shall allow the credit union to provide notice of such vote up to 90 days before the date of the vote. Excludes from the gross income of a depository institution, for Federal tax purposes, the fees and income it receives which are attributable to the first $350 million of its total assets.
Independent Contractor Tax Simplification Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to set forth standards for determining whether individual service providers are not employees.
Requires diversity immigrants to have at least a bachelor's degree. Establishes and sets forth the Secretary of State's verification obligations respecting foreign degrees and educational credentials. Authorizes the Secretary to impose a related fee. Establishes the Foreign Degree Equivalence Account in the Treasury.
Sets the outpatient prescription drug benefit at 50 percent of the lesser of: (1) the cost of such drugs for a year. Or (2) $5000. Establishes special rules with respect to Medicare supplemental health insurance (Medigap) for individuals enrolled in the Rx Option.
Biofuels Research and Development Enhancement Act - Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish an information center on research, development, and commercial application of technologies related to biofuels and biorefineries, including: (1) biochemical and thermochemical conversion technologies to make fuels from lignocellulosic feedstocks, (2) biotechnology processes that emphasize enzyme-based processing systems. And (3) other advanced processes and technologies that will enable biofuel development. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to instruct the Secretary to implement a research, development, and demonstration program relating to: (1) existing transportation fuel distribution infrastructure and new alternative distribution infrastructure, focusing on the physical and chemical properties of biofuels and prevention of or mitigation against certain adverse impacts. (2) bioresearch centers located in Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts, with a focus on biofuels. And (3) increased energy efficiency and reduced energy consumption in biorefinery facilities. Directs the Secretary to make grants for research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of biofuel production technologies in states with low rates of ethanol production and of cellulosic biomass ethanol. Requires the Secretary to study and report to Congress on: (1) research and development challenges in increasing to 5 biodiesel fuel sold in the United States. (2) the feasibility of increasing domestic consumption of ethanol-blended gasoline with specified levels of ethanol. (3) whether optimizing flexible fueled vehicles to use E-85 fuel would increase their fuel efficiency, and (4) the effects of biodiesel upon engine durability.
Alternatives to Opioids (ALTO) in the Emergency Department Act This bill requiresnbsp. The Department of Health and Human Services to carry out a three-year demonstration program awarding grants to hospitals and emergency departments to develop, implement, enhance, or study alternative pain management protocols and treatments that promote limited use of opioids in emergency departments.
Consumer Protection Home Inspection Counseling Act of 2012 - Amends the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to publish a Mortgagee Letter informing mortgagees of their obligation to provide prospective homebuyers with specified HUD public outreach publications concerning the importance of obtaining independent home inspections. Requires persons providing housing counseling for HUD-approved counseling agencies to: (1) be trained through a certain voluntary home inspection training module, and (2) distribute and explain certain counseling aids. Requires any homeownership counseling program under HUD auspices or administration to be provided only by organizations or counselors HUD-certified as competent to provide voluntary home inspection counseling. Authorizes HUD to withhold, withdraw, or suspend housing counseling certifications for any non-compliant housing counselor or counseling entity. Requires HUD to establish a comprehensive program to train HUD staff, contractors, individuals, and entities that provide housing counseling under specified HUD-funded programs also to provide counseling to consumers on voluntary home inspection. Requires such training program to include development of a training module to: (1) train counselors as well as counseling aids for use by housing counselors and suitable for distribution to consumers. And (2) be comprehensible to untrained consumers with or without ongoing assistance from housing counselors. Requires HUD, at the Secretary's discretion, to develop a new independent protocol, or amend existing protocols, to certify that such housing counselors have successfully completed training using the voluntary home inspection training module and counseling aids established under this Act.
US Merchant Marine Academy Board of Visitors Enhancement Act - Amends federal shipping law to: (1) expand the membership of the Board of Visitors to the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy, and (2) specify requirements for the presidential appointees. Authorizes certain Board members to designate another individual to serve as a substitute member of the Board, on a temporary basis, to attend or participate in any activity the Board member is unable to attend or participate in. Prescribes requirements for designated substitute Board members. Requires the Board to select biennially from among its members a member of the House of Representatives or a Senator to serve as Board Chairperson. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to select a Designated Federal Officer to support the performance of the Board's functions. Directs the Board to report annually to the President on its actions, views, and recommendations with respect to the Academy.
Social Security COLA Limitation Act of 1994 - Amends title II of the Social Security Act to establish a flat-rate cost-of-living adjustment.
Strengthening Public Health Protections in Major Disasters and Emergencies Act - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to authorize the President, if one or more chemicals or substances associated with potential acute or chronic human health effects are being or have been released in a major disaster area, to carry out a program for the protection, assessment, monitoring, and study of the health and safety of workers or volunteers who responded to Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita or who respond to a major disaster or emergency, residents in a disaster area, or persons who are employed in, or who attend school, child care, or adult day care in, a disaster area. Authorizes the President to carry out such a program through a cooperative agreement with a medical institution or consortium of medical institutions, especially those located near the disaster area and any other area in which there reside groups of individuals that worked or volunteered in response to the disaster. Requires such institution to have appropriate experience in the areas of environmental or occupational health, toxicology, and safety. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to enter jointly into a contract with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to study and report on disaster area health and environmental protection and monitoring. Amends: (1) the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to extend to September 30, 2010, the authority for the predisaster hazard mitigation program. And (2) the Public Health Service Act to authorize the use of preventive health services block grants for community outreach and education programs and other activities designed to address and prevent health and health care disparities.
Voluntary Protection Program Act This bill provides statutory authority for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's (OSHA's) voluntary protection program, under which management, labor, and OSHA establish cooperative relationships at workplaces that have implemented a comprehensive safety and health management system.
Amends the Social Security Act to prohibit States from requiring parents or legal guardians to transfer legal custody of their children for the sole purpose of obtaining public services for such children under certain provisions for: (1) child welfare services, (2) family preservation and support services, (3) foster care maintenance payments, (4) maternal and child health services, (5) Medicaid, and (6) block grants to States for social services.
Plymouth 400th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of the Treasury to issue up to 100,000 $5 gold coins, 500,000 $1 silver coins, and 750,000 half-dollar clad coins emblematic of the landing and settlement of Plymouth Colony, the signing of the Mayflower Compact, and the role of the indigenous Wampanoag tribes in the realization of the settlement. These coins may be issued only during a one-year period beginning January 1, 2020. Sales of such coins shall include specified surcharges, which shall be paid by Treasury as follows: 30 to Plymouth 400, Inc., 30 to the General Society of Mayflower Descendants, 20 to the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe, 5 to the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head (Aquinnah), 5 to the Pilgrim Society's Pilgrim Hall Museum, 5 to Plimoth Plantation, Inc., and 5 to Pilgrims' First Landing Park, Inc.
Tribal Colleges and Universities Faculty Loan Forgiveness Act - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for the cancellation of a specified percentage of the total amount of any Federal Perkins loan, Federal Family Education loan, or direct student loan for each year of employment as a full-time faculty member at a tribal college or university if the borrower is not in default on such loan. Requires the Secretary to assume or cancel the obligation to repay: (1) 15 of the amount of all such loans made, insured, or guaranteed after enactment of this Act to a student for the first or second year of employment. (2) 20 for the third or fourth year of such employment. And (3) 30 for the fifth year. Limits the total amount of loan repayment or cancellation per student to $15,000. Allows for repayment or cancellation of consolidation loans only to the extent of the qualified student loans involved. Prohibits a borrower from receiving, for the same service, both a benefit from this Act and a benefit from the National Community Service Act of 1990. Amends the Public Health Service Act to provide for repayment by the Secretary of Health and Human Services of educational loans for nurse training costs on behalf of nursing instructors at tribal colleges or universities, or any land-grant institution listed in the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994. Provides that the amount of any loan forgiven under this Act shall not be treated as gross income for federal tax purposes.
Copper Valley Native Allotment Resolution Act of 2007 - Grants rights-of-way across specified Native allotments to the Copper Valley Electric Association for an electric transmission line. Declares this Act inapplicable to land owned by Ahtna, Inc. and any prior or current right-of-way agreements that may exist between Ahtna, Inc. and the Copper Valley Electric Association or Alaska. Prescribes compensation procedures. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 to declare that certain restrictions concerning a vessel built in a foreign country shall not apply to a newly constructed drybulk or breakbulk vessel over 7,500 deadweight tons that has been delivered from a foreign shipyard or contracted for construction in a foreign shipyard before the earlier of two specified dates. Deems US-built any vessel timely contracted for or delivered and documented under US law, if certain conditions are met. Directs the Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation, to initiate discussions in all appropriate international forums to establish an international standard for the scrapping of vessels in a safe and environmentally sound manner. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to develop, and report to specified congressional committees on, a program for the scrapping of obsolete National Defense Reserve Fleet Vessels. Amends the National Maritime Heritage Act of 1994 to extend, through September 30, 2006, the authority of the Secretary to dispose of certain vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet. Requires that such vessels be disposed of in the most cost effective manner to the United States, taking into account the need for disposal, the environment, and safety concerns. Amends Federal law to authorize the expenditure of funds from the National Defense Sealift Fund for costs related to the scrapping of National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels. Names vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet that may be scrapped in the United States or a foreign country. Requires the Maritime Administration to state separately the amount, source, intended use, and nature of any funds administered, or subject to oversight, by the Administration. Amends Federal maritime law to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to make a grant to a National Maritime Enhancement Institute for maritime and maritime intermodal research as if the Institute were a university transportation center. Directs the Secretary to study maritime research and technology development, and report the results, including any recommendations, to Congress. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary to convey all right, title, and US interest in the USS. GLACIER to the Glacier Society, Inc. Bridgeport, Connecticut.
Head Start Assessment Act of 2003 - Prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services from proceeding with the full-scale implementation of the Head Start National Reporting System on Child Outcomes, as described in a specified project proposal, until the Secretary certifies to Congress that: (1) congressional oversight hearings have been concluded concerning the development and implementation of the System. (2) the Secretary has concluded public forums in different regions of the United States, and provided an opportunity for written public comments, concerning early childhood assessment proposals. (3) the Secretary has reported to Congress a study by the National Academy of Sciences of early childhood assessments focusing on improving accountability, instruction, and the delivery of services. And (4) sufficient funds are available to develop and implement any new Head Start assessments, and deliver necessary additional technical assistance and professional development required to successfully implement these assessments. Prescribes requirements for participants in such public forums.
Enhanced Savings Opportunities Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit maximum employee contributions to a defined contribution plan to be the lesser of either $30,000 or the participant's compensation, rather than the lesser of $30,000 or 25 percent of the participant's compensation. Makes conforming amendments regarding tax-exempt, educational, and State and local employee annuity plans. Excludes elective deferrals from such limits.
Oil Industry Merger Antitrust Enforcement Act - Amends the Clayton Act to require, in any civil action in which the plaintiff alleges that the effect of a merger, acquisition, or other transaction (transaction) may be to substantially lessen competition or to create a monopoly in the business of exploring for, producing, refining, marketing, or selling petroleum, oil, natural gas, or their related products and that establishes that the transaction involves competitors in that business, the burden of proof shall be on the defendant to establish that such transaction will not substantially lessen competition or create a monopoly. Directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice to jointly review and revise applicable enforcement guidelines and policies in order to: (1) specifically address the above transactions. And (2) ensure that the guidelines will prevent any transaction which substantially lessens competition or creates a monopoly.
Muhammad Ali Expansion Act This bill amends the Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996 to: (1) establish definitions for fighter, combat sport competition, and mixed martial arts. And (2) include individuals who fight in a professional mixed martial arts competition or other professional combat sport competition, such competitions, and the professional combat sports industry within the scope of such Act. The bill requires the Association of Boxing Commissions, within two years after enactment of this bill, to establish: (1) guidelines for minimum contractual provisions that should be included in bout agreements and mixed martial arts and other combat sport contracts, and (2) guidelines for objective and consistent written criteria for the ratings of mixed martial arts and other combat sports. The bill applies conflict of interest provisions that prohibit a promoter from having a financial interest in the management of a boxer, or a manager from having a financial interest in the promotion of a boxer, to fighters participating in a mixed martial arts or other combat sport competition scheduled for 11 minutes or more.
Smaller Schools, Stronger Communities Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to make grants to local educational agencies to develop and implement plans to create smaller learning communities.
Requires a report to accompany such certification describing the extent to which each such country is making progress in: (1) implementing comprehensive economic reform, based on market principles, private ownership, and other specified economic indicators. (2) eliminating corrupt trade practices by private persons and government officials. And (3) moving toward integration into the world economy. Instructs the Secretary of Commerce to make a toll-free telephone number available for progress reports on countries receiving foreign assistance and implementing specified economic indicators.
International Food Assistance Improvement Act of 2012 - Amends the Food for Peace Act to direct the Administrator of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to: (1) improve the nutritional quality of US food assistance, particularly for groups such as pregnant and lactating mothers, children under the age of five, and beneficiaries under the President's Emergency Fund for AIDS Relief in Africa. And (2) work within the Food Aid Consultative Group to increase coordination and oversight of food assistance programs.
Tax Equity Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for regional cost-of-living adjustments in individual income tax rates.
Rural Health Care Protection Act of 1997 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act, with respect to a hospital which has ever been classified as a rural referral center, to prohibit denial of a request for its reclassification on the basis of any comparison between its average hourly wage and the average hourly wages of hospitals in the area in which it is located. Declares that any hospital classified as a rural referral center by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for FY 1991 shall be so classified for FY 1998 and each subsequent fiscal year. Permits hospital geographic reclassification for purposes of disproportionate share payment adjustments. Permits rebasing of Medicare payment for sole community hospitals using FY 1994 and 1995 costs.
Senior Nutrition Act of 2002 - Amends the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 to make a person who is at least 60 years old eligible for the commodity supplemental food program (program) if such person: (1) is eligible for the food stamp program. Or (2) has a household income that is not more than 185 percent of the federal poverty income guidelines. Authorizes permanent program appropriations.
United States Secret Service Accountability and Improvement Act of 2014 - Establishes in the legislative branch an independent advisory panel to: (1) examine the efficiency and effectiveness of the leadership structure, protocols, training, tools, and capabilities of the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) mission to protect national leaders, visiting heads of state and government, designated sites, and special events of national significance. And (2) make recommendations to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the United States Secret Service. Directs the panel to assess the current leadership structure, protocols, training, tools, and capabilities of the Service, including assessing: the unity of effort between the divisions of the Service, law enforcement agencies, and other components of DHS related to the protective and investigative missions. The impact of Service personnel culture on its effectiveness and efficiency. The impact any leadership or security deficiencies have on the threat from acts of terrorism or other security incidents. Identification of all security breaches at locations under Service protection in the past five years. The extent to which current resources provide for accomplishing its mission, and the effectiveness of communications and dissemination of homeland security information within the Service and with other law enforcement entities in routine and emergency situations. Sets forth reporting requirements, including requiring the final report to identify lessons learned regarding Service leadership issues and to include recommendations for improving efficiency and effectiveness, improving unity of effort, eliminating barriers to effective communications, identifying and mitigating culture issues that detract from its mission, and mitigating risks based on past security breaches.
Fair Justice Act of 2001 - Establishes the Fair Justice Agency as an independent executive branch agency to investigate and prosecute alleged misconduct, criminal activity, corruption, or fraud by Department of Justice officers or employees.
Authorizes appropriations for construction of a replacement laboratory for the Rocky Mountain Research Station at Rapid City, South Dakota, to be colocated with at least one of the Forest administrative improvements. Requires any acquired property to be: (1) in South Dakota, and (2) from a willing seller.
Directs the Secretary of the Interior to offer to enter into cooperative agreements with Florida and Lake, Orange, and Seminole counties, and appropriate local planning and environmental organizations to provide for the long-term protection, preservation, and enhancement of the Wekiva River system . Declares that the Secretary's administration of the system by the use of such agreements shall not constitute National Park Service administration of the Wekiva river system and shall not cause such system to be considered as a National Park System unit. Requires publicly owned lands within the system's boundaries to continue to be managed by the agency having jurisdiction over the lands, in accordance with the statutory authority and mission of the agency. Provides that: (1) if the Secretary determines that a specified segment of Seminole Creek in Florida is eligible for designation as a NWSRS component and the owner of the property through which Seminole Creek runs notifies the Secretary of his or her support for such designation, the Secretary may designate that tributary as an additional NWSRS component. And (2) nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize funding for land acquisition, facility development, or operation. Requires the Secretary to establish the Wekiva River System Advisory Management Committee to: (1) assist in the development of the comprehensive management plan to be developed as required by the Act for the Wekiva River system. And (2) provide advice to the Secretary in carrying out management responsibilities under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Child Immunization Incentive Act of 1993 - Amends part A (AFDC) of title IV of the Social Security Act to: (1) deny AFDC for children under six who have not received periodic examinations by a physician or immunizations. And (2) require State outreach activities with respect to preventive health care and immunizations for pre-school children. Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act to require providers assisted under such Act to require each child receiving their services to receive immunizations in accordance with the recommendations issued by the Surgeon General pursuant to this Act.
Directs the Secretary of the Interior to study the feasibility of establishing a National Heritage Corridor from the city of Ogden to Promontory Point. Authorizes the Secretary to add to Area lands upon request from the city. Designates the city as the Area's management entity. Requires an Area management plan to be submitted by the city to the Secretary within three years after enactment of this Act. Outlines plan requirements, approval and disapproval procedures, and priorities. Requires the city, in preparing and implementing the management plan, to consider the interests of diverse units of government, businesses, private property owners, and nonprofit groups within the Area. Requires public meetings and annual reports. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance and grants to the city and the above entities for plan development and implementation. Prohibits the Secretary from making any grants or providing any assistance after September 30, 2016. Authorizes appropriations, with a $10 million total limit for establishing the Area. Prohibits Federal funding from exceeding 50 percent of the cost of any activities carried out under this Act.
Hire Just One Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow states, for a 120-day period beginning on the enactment date of this Act, to implement an employment assistance voucher program, in lieu of paying unemployment compensation directly to employees, under which an eligible individual is issued an employment assistance voucher and is hired by a participating employer who receives a subsidy from the state for the wages paid to the employee. Defines an quot, eligible employeequot. As an individual who has been unemployed for at least six months, who is eligible for unemployment compensation, and who is likely to exhaust such compensation. Requires a state program issuing employment assistance vouchers to have in effect measures to recoup subsidies made to an employer if such employer has terminated more employees during the 120-day period than such employer has hired under the program.
Provides for issuance of a certificate of naturalization for a child born outside of the United States when the following conditions are met: (1) at least one parent is a US citizen who has been present in the United States for not less than five years, at least two of which were after having attained the age of 14, or who has a citizen parent meeting such requirements, (2) the child is under 18 years old. And (3) the child is residing outside the United States in the legal and physical custody of the citizen parent, is temporarily and lawfully present in the United States, and is maintaining such lawful status. Applies such provision to an adopted child meeting certain definitional requirements who is adopted by a US citizen parent. Title II: Protections for Certain Aliens Voting Based on Reasonable Belief of Citizenship - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act respecting unlawful voting or false US citizenship claims by permanent resident aliens under 16 years old having natural or adoptive US citizen parents, to provide exceptions from certain provisions regarding deportability, moral character, inadmissability or related criminal penalties.
Counseling in Shelters Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Assistant Secretary for the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, to make grants for up to five years to eligible community-based entities to provide on-site mental health and substance abuse counseling and referral services for victims of domestic or sexual violence. Permits grant funds to be used for hiring professionals and staff and providing training in the dynamics of domestic violence and sexual assault. Requires the Secretary, in awarding such grants, to: (1) ensure equitable geographic and urbanrural distribution. (2) give preference to entities with high levels of cultural competence and strong ties to minority communities, and (3) provide technical assistance.
Securing the Cities Act of 2017 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO) to establish the Securing the Cities program to enhance the ability of the United States to detect and prevent terrorist attacks and other high consequence events utilizing nuclear or other radiological materials that pose a high risk to homeland security in high-risk urban areas. Under such program, the DNDO shall: assist state, local, tribal, and territorial governments in designing and implementing, or enhancing existing, architectures for coordinated and integrated detection and interdiction of nuclear or other radiological materials that are out of regulatory control. Support the development of a region-wide operating capability to detect and report on nuclear and other radioactive materials out of regulatory control. Provide resources to enhance detection, analysis, communication, and coordination to better integrate state, local, tribal, and territorial assets into federal operations. Facilitate alarm adjudication and provide subject matter expertise and technical assistance on concepts of operations, training, exercises, and alarm response protocols. Communicate with, and promote sharing of information about the presence or detection of nuclear or other radiological materials among, appropriate federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial governments in a manner that ensures transparency. Provide augmenting resources to enable state, local, tribal, and territorial governments to sustain and refresh their capabilities developed under the program. And designate participating jurisdictions from among high-risk urban areas and other cities and regions, as appropriate, and notify Congress at least three days before designating or changing such jurisdictions. The Comptroller General is required to submit an assessment evaluating the effectiveness of the program. The DNDO shall report to Congress on the feasibility of developing model exercises to test the preparedness of jurisdictions participating in the program in meeting the challenges that may be posed by a range of nuclear and radiological threats.
This bill amends the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to recognize Alexander Creek as a Native village. Currently, Alexander Creek is recognized as a Native group. Alexander Creek must file any amendments to its corporate charter that are necessary to convert from a Native group to a Native village. The Department of the Interior must negotiate with Alexander Creek to fairly and equitably settle aboriginal land claims and any other claims against the United States. Alexander Creek must notify its members that the Cook Inlet regional corporation will make future payments to the village instead of to individual members. The regional corporation is not liable for damages related to cessation of payments to individual members of Alexander Creek.
Lead Poisoning Reduction Act of 2006 - Amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to establish a Select Group on Lead Exposure. Requires the Group to: (1) conduct a study of state, tribal, and local programs to protect children from exposure to lead at child-occupied facilities constructed before January 1, 1978. (2) develop baseline standards such programs must meet to receive a grant under this Act. And (3) develop a model program to protect children from exposure to lead at such facilities that can be adopted by state, local, and tribal governments. Requires the model program to meet or exceed standards that require facilities to be notified as soon as practicable after a child is diagnosed with lead poisoning and to be tested for the presence of lead upon receiving such notification. Directs the Administrator to: (1) establish a program to provide grants to assist such facilitites in carrying out activities to protect children from lead exposure. (2) promulgate regulations requiring such facilities to test applicable exposure pathways for lead, prohibiting states and Indian tribes from issuing a license to such facilities until the testing is complete and the exposure to lead is eliminated, and requiring all child-occupied facilities to eliminate the risk of exposure to lead through applicable exposure pathways. And (3) apply regulations governing lead-based paint activities to contractors and workers engaged in the renovation, remodeling, or painting of such facilitates and to establish a program to provide information and training about those activities to them.
Amends the Federal criminal code to authorize Federal Prison Industries (FPI) to sell excess or obsolescent property on the open market at the best available price, with the proceeds of such sales to be deposited to the Prison Industries Fund. Requires FPI to determine the character of and necessity for its obligations and expenditures and the manner in which they shall be incurred, allowed, and paid, subject to laws applicable to Government corporations. Requires commodities and services produced by FPI to be sold at current market prices and to conform to Federal and relevant private industry design, quality, and testing standards. Accords services of the workshops for the handicapped priority for Federal purchasing over those offered by FPI if both entities offer competitive services. Requires Federal agencies to provide to FPI the maximum opportunity to participate as a subcontractor in labor-intensive, light manufacturing segments of awarded contracts. Authorizes FPI to: (1) produce or provide for sale on the open market processes, products, and services that would otherwise be produced by foreign labor at offshore locations. And (2) enter into agreements with private industry for such purposes. Requires FPI to certify that such products, processes, or services: (1) are labor-intensive and limited to levels that replace goods and services produced by offshore labor. And (2) do not significantly increase competition with any remaining domestic labor or industry. Authorizes FPI to: (1) produce and provide recycled materials for sale on the open market. And (2) produce or provide goods and services for sale or donation on the open market to private, nonprofit organizations to assist in disaster relief. Exempts: (1) items sold on the open market pursuant to this Act from the prohibition against shipment in commerce of prison-made goods. And (2) inmates who work on the production of products or services from the minimum wage requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Authorizes FPI funds to be used to enter into contracts related to the purchase of goods for industrial operations without regard to laws governing procurement by Federal agencies.
Corporate Responsibility Fee Act of 2017 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a specified excise tax on certain employers who employ low-wage employees during the taxable year. A quot, low-wagequot. Employee is an employee who receives wages from the employer that are less than 218 of the federal poverty line. The bill reduces the amount of the tax for employers who provide certain health and retirement benefits to low-wage employees. Government employers, churches, and church organizations are exempt from the tax.
Rush Hour Congestion Relief Act of 2004 - Amends the Federal-Aid Highways Program to direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish and implement a traffic incident management program to assist States and localities in: (1) regional traffic incident management program planning. And (2) carrying out projects to mitigate the effects of traffic delays resulting from accidents, breakdowns, and other non-recurring incidents on highways. Prohibits funds apportioned under this Act from being obligated for an urbanized area with a population greater than 300,000 until such time as a regional traffic incident management plan is developed for the urbanized area. Requires an urbanized area that receives funds under this Act to engage in certain regional collaboration and coordination activities to develop a prescribed regional traffic incident management plan. Prescribes an apportionment formula for funds distribution among the States to implement this Act.
Motor Donor Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to provide for the establishment and maintenance of a national organ and tissue donor registry consisting of a database of information listing individuals who have expressed an intent to be organ or tissue donors. Provides for the coordination of the Registry with State and organ and tissue registries and procurement organizations. Authorizes grants to States for the planning and implementation of State registries associated with the motor vehicle driver's license application process and for linkages with the Registry. Establishes an advisory task force on organ and tissue donation. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit the disclosure of taxpayer identification in connection with the Registry.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude up to $250,000 of gain on the sale of a principal residence if owned and used as the principal residence for periods aggregating at least two years during the five-year period prior to sale or exchange. Sets forth special rules relating to: (1) jointly held property, (2) a deceased spouse, (3) a cooperative housing tenant-stockholder, (4) partial principal residence use, (5) determination of marital status, (6) acquisition after involuntary conversion, and (6) periods of out-of-residence health care.
Winter Readiness Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a taxpayer election to expense all costs for qualified oil and gas production property placed in service before January 1, 2009, and for repairs to such property for hurricane-related damage. Defines qualified oil and gas production property to include assets used in offshore drilling for oil and gas, and for exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas deposits. Allows a 10-year carryback of net operating losses incurred in 2005 for hurricane-damaged oil and gas facilities.
Limits qualifying expenditures to expenditures incurred since the issuance of the antidumping duty finding or order or countervailing duty order in any or all of the categories of plant, equipment, research and development, personnel training, acquisition of technology, employer-paid employee health care and pension benefits, environmental equipment, training or technology, acquisition of raw materials and other inputs, and borrowed working capital or other funds needed to maintain production. Directs the Commissioner of the US Customs Service to prescribe offset disbursement procedures. Sets forth general procedures for notification of eligible parties. Requires the Commissioner to establish a special account in the Treasury to receive all antidumping or countervailing duties, including interest, for distribution according to this Act, within 14 days after an antidumping or countervailing duty order takes effect.
Consumer Credit Act of 1999 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to mandate that: (1) monthly billing statements for an open end consumer credit plan include specified repayment information, including the number of months it would take to pay the balance and the total cost if the consumer pays only the required minimum payment. (2) certain written disclosures be furnished to the consumer at the time of purchase if the creditor of an open end consumer credit plan obtains a security interest in personal property purchased under such plan. And (3) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System publish the pertinent model disclosure forms. Requires: (1) creditors making advances under an open end credit plan to annually report certain loan data to the Board. And (2) the Board to compile such data and submit it to certain congressional committees annually. Amends Federal bankruptcy law to permit the discharge in bankruptcy of an individual debt if the creditor has not made the requisite disclosures under this Act. Sanctions the reaffirmation of a dischargeable debt if the reaffirmation agreement contains such disclosures.
Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2013 for the Department of Defense (DOD) for the Army and Air National Guards for equipment reset (resupply) requirements, and to otherwise remedy other equipment shortfalls in order to bring the Army and Air National Guards to full equipment readiness. Requires a report from the Secretary to Congress on the capability of the US defense industrial base to produce the necessary equipment.
Medicare Nonprofit Hospital Protection Act of 1997 - Amends part A of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to disqualify for Medicare payment any non-profit hospital that transfers assets or control to a for-profit entity without appropriate approval by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Energy Conservation Opportunity Fund Act of 2008 or the ECO Fund Act of 2008 - Establishes in the Treasury an Alternative Energy Sources State Revolving Fund. Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to use amounts in the Fund to provide loans to states and Indian tribes to provide incentives to owners of single family and multifamily housing, commercial properties, and public buildings to provide: (1) renewable energy sources, such as wind, wave, solar, biomass, or geothermal energy, for such structures. (2) energy efficiency and energy conserving improvements and features for such structures. Or (3) infrastructure related to the delivery of electricity and hot water for structures lacking such amenities.
American 5-Cent Coin Design Continuity Act of 2003 - Title I: United States American 5-Cent Coin Design Continuity - Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to change the design on the obverse and reverse sides of five-cent coins issued in 2003, 2004, and 2005, in recognition of the bicentennial of the Louisiana Purchase and the expedition of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. States that if the Secretary elects to change: (1) the obverse of 5-cent coins issued during 2003, 2004, and 2005, the design shall depict a likeness of President Thomas Jefferson, different from the likeness that appeared on the obverse of the 5-cent coins issued during 2002, in recognition of his role with respect to the Louisiana Purchase and the commissioning of the Lewis and Clark expedition. And (2) the reverse of the 5-cent coins issued during such years, the design selected shall depict images emblematic of the Louisiana Purchase or the expedition of Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. Requires the obverse of any 5-cent coin issued after December 31, 2005, to bear the likeness of Thomas Jefferson and the reverse of such coin bear an image of the home of Thomas Jefferson at Monticello. Establishes a seven-member Coin Design Advisory Committee to advise the Secretary on coin themes and designs. Abolishes the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee. Authorizes certain Committee members to continue serving the remainder of their appointed term as a member of the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee as determined by the Secretary. Title II: Technical and Clarifying Provisions - Amends Federal law to revise the requirements for payment of surcharges to recipient organizations. Requires deposit into the Treasury as unpaid receipts certain unpaid amounts derived from surcharge proceeds.
American Worker Mobility Act of 2014 - Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to grant a relocation subsidy of up to $10,000 to an individual who: (1) has been totally unemployed for at least 26 consecutive weeks. (2) has exhausted all rights to state or federal unemployment compensation. (3) has not received a relocation subsidy for the two-year period preceding the subsidy application. And (4) is able to work, available to work, and actively seeking work. Prescribes subsidy program requirements. Directs the Secretary to issue regulations to prevent program fraud or abuse.
Absentee Ballot Track, Receive, and Confirm Act - Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to direct the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to make a payment to reimburse a state for the costs incurred in establishing, if the state so chooses, an absentee ballot tracking program for federal elections.
Asthma Act - Authorizes additional appropriations to the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute to expand the National Asthma Education and Prevention Program. Requires the Program's coordinating committee to report to Congress on: (1) the scope of the asthma problem in the United States, (2) federal programs that carry out asthma-related activities. And (3) recommendations for strengthening and better coordinating such activities. Includes the Secretary of Education or a designee in the committee's membership. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to: (1) collaborate with states to expand the scope of asthma-related activities to determine the incidence and prevalence of asthma and prevent related health consequences. (2) conduct local asthma surveillance activities to collect data on the prevalence and severity of asthma and the quality of asthma management. And (3) compile and annually publish data on the prevalence of asthma in children. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants for: (1) information and education on asthma. And (2) referrals to health programs that provide asthma-related services. Directs the Secretary to: (1) carry out a program to encourage the states to implement plans for activities to assist children with respect to asthma in accordance with the Institute's guidelines. And (2) make a grant to states under the Children's Health Insurance Program for such activities. Authorizes grants to local educational agencies to carry out asthma-related activities at elementary and secondary schools in communities with a significant number of low-income or underserved individuals.
Rim of the Valley Corridor Study Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study of the lands, waters, and interests of the Rim of the Valley Corridor in Southern California to evaluate its national significance and the suitability and feasibility of establishing it as a unit of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area of the National Park System. Establishes the Rim of the Valley Corridor and Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area Advisory Committee to: (1) advise the Secretary regarding such study. And (2) recommend to the Secretary boundaries for a Santa Monica Mountains and Rim of the Valley National Recreation Area.
Genetic Information Health Insurance Nondiscrimination Act of 1997 - Amends the Public Health Service Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to prohibit group health plans and health insurance issuers offering group coverage from discriminating on the basis of a request for or receipt of genetic information or a genetic test. Regulates the collection and disclosure of genetic information by plans and issuers. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to prohibit group health plans from discriminating on the basis of a request for or receipt of genetic information or a genetic test. Amends the Public Health Service Act to regulate the collection and disclosure of genetic information by health insurance issuers offering individual coverage.
This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a program under which it may enter into up to five partnership arrangements with a state or local authority, a tax exempt non-profit corporation, a limited liability corporation, a private entity, a donor, or other non-federal entity to conduct: super construction projects, major medical facility projects. Or major construction projects to construct a new cemeteries or to develop additional gravesites or columbarium niches at existing cemeteries. The VA may select projects for which: (1) Congress has appropriated partial funding or the VA has identified a need through its long-range capital planning process by listing it on the Major Construction Strategic Capital Investment Planning priority list included in the annual budget submitted to Congress by the President, and (2) a non-federal entity has entered into or is willing to enter into a formal agreement with the VA to independently finance or donate an acceptable amount of project funds at no additional cost to the federal government. One of the non-federal entity partnership agreements shall be a project to design, finance, and construct a new ambulatory care center in Omaha, Nebraska. Each partnership agreement shall require the partner entity to: conduct necessary environmental and historic preservation due diligence, comply with local zoning requirements, and obtain any permits required for construction. Use construction standards required of the VA when designing and building the project, except to the extent the VA determines otherwise. And establish a Board of Directors to oversee the project. The VA shall include in the annual budget submitted to Congress by the President information regarding any projects conducted under this bill during the preceding year.
Commission on Chemical and Biological Warfare Agent Exposure Act - Establishes the Commission on Chemical and Biological Warfare Agent Exposure to investigate the presence of, and US military personnel exposure to, chemical and biological warfare agents in the Persian Gulf theater during the Persian Gulf War. Requires a Commission report to the President and the Congress on investigation results and appropriate recommendations for changes in the recordkeeping, reporting, preparation, and training procedures of the Department of Defense with respect to such exposure in order to improve the safety and readiness of US military personnel. Terminates the Commission 60 days after such report.
American Indian Trust Responsibility Review Act of 2014 - Establishes the American Indian Trust Review Commission to: (1) conduct a comprehensive review of the unique trust relationship between the United States and federally recognized Indian tribes, and (2) report to Congress within two years of this Act's enactment. Requires the study to analyze: the attributes of that relationship. The policies, practices, structure, and effectiveness of the federal agencies that have trust responsibilities toward Indian tribes. The feasibility of authorizing willing Indian tribes to assume duties currently performed by the federal government. The data necessary for the Commission to get a better understanding of tribal needs. The feasibility of creating high-level federal positions to increase tribal participation in policy formation and program development. The viability of a mechanism to ensure the continuation of critical programs for Indian tribes. The appropriate role of state and local governments in federal activities affecting Indian tribes. And modifications to laws, procedures, regulations, policies, and practices that might further the federal government's trust relationship with Indian tribes.
Home-Based Business Fairness Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to increase the deduction allowed for the health insurance costs of a self-employed individual to allow as a deduction an amount equal to the amount paid by such individual for insurance which constitutes medical care for such individual, such individual's spouse, and dependents. Adds to provisions defining the disallowance of certain expenses in connection the business use of the home to provide that a home office shall in any case qualify as the principal place of business if the office is: (1) in the location where the taxpayer's essential administrative or management activities are conducted on a regular and systematic basis. And (2) necessary because the taxpayer has no other location for the performance of the essential management or administrative activities of the business. Considers a service provider as not being an employee if the provider: (1) can realize a profit or loss, can incur unreimbursed expenses, and makes a time-limited or task-limited agreement. (2) has a principal place of business, does not primarily provide service at a single service recipient's facilities, pays fair rent for the use of the recipient's facilities, or operates primarily with equipment not supplied by the recipient. And (3) if there is a written contract providing that the provider will not be treated as an employee for Federal tax purposes. Considers a provider as not an employee if: (1) there is such a written contract. And (2) the provider is a corporation or limited liability company and does not receive benefits that the recipient's employees receive. Regulates the treatment of determinations by the Secretary of the Treasury that a service provider should have been treated as an employee.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the issuance of tax-exempt facility bonds through 2012 to make automobile development and production facilities built before 1981 compatible for the development and production of qualified alternative motor vehicles and component parts.
Declares the right, title, and interest of the United States in certain tracts of land in Rio Arriba County and in Rio Arriba and Santa Fe Counties, New Mexico, to be held in trust for the Pueblo of Santa Clara and the Pueblo of San Ildefonso, respectively . Directs the Office of Cadastral Survey to conduct a survey of the boundary lines between the properties. Declares the lands held in trust to be part of the Santa Clara Indian Reservation and the San Ildefonso Indian Reservation and directs that they be administered in accordance with any law or court order generally applicable to property held by the US Government in trust for Indian tribes. Subjects the trust lands and other lands in the Santa Clara Pueblo Grant and the San Ildefonso Pueblo Grant that are held by the respective tribes or subsequently acquired by them to the Pueblo Lands Act of 1924. Requires trust lands to be used only for traditional or customary uses or stewardship conservation. Prohibits trust lands from being used for any new commercial developments beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. Prohibits this Act from being construed to: (1) affect any person's existing right-of-way, lease, permit, mining claim, grazing permit, water right, or other right or interest in or to the trust lands. (2) affect any existing right or claim of either Pueblo to any lands or interest in lands based upon Aboriginal or Indian title. Or (3) constitute the reservation of water or water rights in the trust lands or any change in status of water rights of either Pueblo.
Rural Housing Preservation Act of 2016 This bill amends the Housing Act of 1949 to direct the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to extend rural housing vouchers to any low-income household residing in a property financed with a loan made or insured for housing and related facilities for elderly or other low-income persons and families which has been prepaid, or which has matured, after September 30, 2005. No owner of a property financed with such a loan, whether outstanding or fully paid, may refuse to lease an available dwelling unit in the property to a household on behalf of whom a rural housing voucher assistance is provided, and enter into a voucher contract respecting that unit, if a proximate cause of that refusal is the current or prospective tenant's status as a holder of such a voucher. USDA may contract to make, make, and renew annual assistance payments to owners of projects originally financed with such a loan that has matured on or after enactment of this bill, and at rental rates commensurate to income. USDA shall establish uniform requirements, terms, and conditions for any sale or transfer of a property financed with such a loan to any entity, including a nonprofit organization, seeking to acquire it with a similar loan and any low-income housing tax credit under the Internal Revenue Code. USDA may also establish a Multifamily Housing Revitalization Program for the preservation and revitalization of multifamily housing projects funded with such loans, as well as with loans for housing and related facilities for domestic farm labor, to ensure that those projects have sufficient resources to provide safe and affordable housing for low-income residents and farm laborers.
Provides that such individual's benefit shall be payable for such month only in proportion to the number of days preceding the date of death. Provides for disregard of such benefits for the month of death in determining maximum family benefits.
Higher Education Affordability and Fairness Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited tax deduction for qualified higher education tuition and related expenses. Provides that the increase in the Lifetime Learning Credit to 20 percent of $10,000 of tuition from $5,000 of tuition shall be effective starting in 2002 rather than 2003. Directs the Comptroller General of the United States to conduct an annual study to examine whether the Federal income tax incentives to provide education assistance affect higher education tuition rates in order to identify if institutions of higher education are absorbing the intended savings by raising tuition rates. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the maximum Pell Grant should be increased to $4,700 to pay approximately: (1) 20 percent of the tuition, fees, room and board, and other expenses of the average college. Or (2) the tuition and fees of the average public college.
Heavy Truck, Tractor, and Trailer Retail Federal Excise Tax Repeal Act of 2017 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the 12 excise tax on the retail sale of heavy trucks and trailers.
Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2006 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow individual taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes of less than $75,000 a tax credit for 10 of their income tax. (2) eliminate income taxes for individual taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes of less than $12,500. (3) double the child tax credit for individual taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes of less than $75,000. (4) eliminate the alternative minimum tax in 2007 for certain individual taxpayers. And (5) impose an income tax surtax on individual taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes of over $500,000 .
Electronic Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996 - Amends the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to define record to mean information maintained by an agency, as a required agency record, in any format, including an electronic format. Revises provisions which permit an agency to delete identifying details when it makes available or publishes specified information so as to permit such deletions in copies of all records. Requires that the extent of such deletion shall be indicated on the portion of the record which is made available or published, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the current exemptions under which the deletion is made. Requires an agency to make available for public inspection and copying: (1) copies of all records, regardless of form or format, which have been released to an individual and which, because of the nature of their subject matter, have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests for substantially the same records. (2) a general index of such records, which shall be made available electronically by December 31, 1999. And (3) within one year after November 1, 1996, by computer telecommunications or other electronic means, those records created on or after November 1, 1996. Requires that an agency in responding to a request for records shall make reasonable efforts to search for the records in electronic form or format, except when such efforts would significantly interfere with the operation of the agency's automated information system. Provides that, respecting a standard for judicial review, in addition to any other matters to which a court accords substantial weight, a court shall accord substantial weight to an affidavit of an agency concerning the agency's determination as to technical feasibility and reproducibility. Authorizes each agency to promulgate regulations, pursuant to notice and receipt of public comment, providing for: (1) multitrack processing of requests for records based on the amount of work or time involved in processing requests. And (2) an opportunity for an individual making a request that does not qualify for the fastest multitrack processing to limit the scope of the request in order to qualify for faster processing. Directs that the agency, with respect to a request for which a written notice in the case of unusual circumstances extends the time limits prescribed, shall: (1) notify the requestor if the request cannot be processed within the time limit. And (2) provide the requestor an opportunity to limit the scope of the request so that it may be processed within that time limit or to arrange with the agency an alternative time frame for processing the request or a modified request. Authorizes each agency to promulgate regulations, pursuant to notice and receipt of public comment, providing for the aggregation of certain requests by the same requestor, or by a group of requestors acting in concert, if the agency reasonably believes that such requests actually constitute a single request and the requests involve clearly related matters. Prohibits the aggregation of multiple requests involving unrelated matters. Prohibits including a delay that results from a predictable agency workload of requests as an exceptional circumstance, unless the agency demonstrates reasonable progress in reducing its backlog of pending requests. Considers as a factor in determining whether exceptional circumstances exist the refusal by an individual to modify the scope of a request or arrange an alternative time frame for processing a request after being given an opportunity to do so by the agency. Directs each agency to promulgate regulations, pursuant to notice and receipt of public comment, providing for expedited processing of requests for records. Extends the general period for determining whether to comply with a request from ten to 20 days. Requires deletions to be indicated, if technically feasible, on the released portion of the record, unless including that indication would harm an interest protected by the exemption under which the deletion is made. Revises FOIA reporting requirements. Directs each agency head to make publicly available, upon request, reference material or a guide for requesting records or information from the agency, including: (1) an index of all major information systems of the agency. (2) a description of major information and record locator systems maintained by the agency. And (3) a handbook for obtaining various types and categories of public information from the agency.
Hide No Harm Act of 2015 This bill amends the federal criminal code to make it a crime for a business entity or business executive to knowingly conceal information about its business practices or products that pose an imminent risk of death or serious physical injury to consumers and workplace danger. Specific requirements are set forth for what a business entity or business executive must do after acquiring knowledge of a serious danger associated with its business practices or products. If such an entity or executive fails to warn affected employees and other individuals of a serious danger, they are subject to a fine andor prison term of five years. The bill makes it unlawful to knowingly discriminate or retaliate against an employee who warns other agencies or individuals of a serious danger associated with a product or service.
Energy Tax Rebate Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide a formula for an energy tax rebate to eligible individuals for the taxable year beginning in 2005. Expresses the sense of the Senate that Congress should appropriate $5.1 billion for FY2006 and each subsequent fiscal year for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981. Declares it is unlawful for any person to sell crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillates at a price that: (1) is unconscionably excessive. Or (2) indicates the seller is taking unfair advantage of circumstances to increase prices unreasonably. Prohibits geographic price-setting and territorial restrictions. Empowers the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the State Attorneys General to enforce this Act. Sets forth civil and criminal penalties for violations of this Act. Directs the FTC to: (1) facilitate price transparency in markets for the sale of crude oil and essential petroleum products at wholesale. (2) seek to ensure that consumers and competitive markets are protected from the adverse effects of potential collusion or other anticompetitive behaviors that can be facilitated by untimely public disclosure of transaction-specific information. And (3) conclude a memorandum of understanding with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and other appropriate agencies relating to information sharing.
Flexible Family Leave Tax Credit Act of 1993 - Title I: Family Leave Credit - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an employer an income tax credit for 20 percent of qualified employee compensation with respect to an employee who is on family leave. Limits such credit to employers with 500 or fewer employees, the amount of qualified compensation, and the maximum period for the use of such leave. Provides that employees qualify for such program if they have no unused sick, disability, or similar leave. Title II: Deficit Neutral Revenue Offset - Increases corporate estimated tax payments for corporations that do not use the previous year's liability safe harbor. Modifies the rules for income annualization for such tax payments.
Prescription Coverage Now Act of 2006 - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Service to provide for an expedited process for the qualification for low-income assistance through a request to the Secretary of the Treasury for tax return and other information sufficient to identify: (1) whether the individual involved is likely eligible for subsidies. And (2) the amount of premium and cost-sharing subsidies for which they would qualify based on such information. Increases the maximum permissible resource level for subsidy eligibility. Waives the late enrollment penalty for subsidy-eligible individuals for the first 24 months of non-enrollment.
Pain at the Pump Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal certain tax incentives for oil and gas companies, including: (1) the tax credit for enhanced oil recovery, (2) the tax credit for producing oil and gas from marginal wells, (3) the expensing allowance for intangible drilling and development costs, (4) the tax deduction for tertiary injectant expenses, (5) the exception to passive loss limitations for working interests in oil and gas properties, and (6) percentage depletion for oil and gas wells. Denies a tax deduction for income attributable to the domestic production, refining, processing, transportation, or distribution of oil, gas, or any primary product thereof. Extends the required amortization period for geological and geophysical expenditures. Expresses the sense of Congress that increases in revenue resulting from this Act should be used to make additional expenditures for clean energy programs, including for alternative fuel technology, research and development, clean energy loan guarantees, and low-income home energy assistance.
Ending Maternal Mortality Act of 2018 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Department of Health and Human Services to publish every two years a national plan to reduce the rate of preventable maternal mortality . Each plan must address specific issues relating to maternal mortality and severe maternal morbidity , such as issues surrounding public awareness, at-risk populations and disparities, and quality of care.
Small Business Assistance and Credit Crunch Relief Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require each appropriate Federal banking agency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to take into consideration, in resolving the problems of an insured depository institution, the potential disruption to the local economy if the institution is closed or otherwise subjected to sanctions by Federal regulators. Prohibits such an agency from promulgating any new regulation until it has conducted a regulatory impact analysis and concluded that the regulation's benefits outweigh its costs, including the benefits and costs for small banks . Directs each agency to conduct a thorough review and evaluation of all: (1) statutory provisions affecting small banks. And (2) regulatory provisions affecting such banks that have been promulgated by such agency. Provides for the suspension of regulations determined to be no longer necessary or ineffective and for the submission to the Congress of a recommendation to suspend the applicability of any Federal law that affects small banks. Requires publication of such suspensions in the Federal Register and appropriate consultation for such determinations. Amends the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 to raise from $100,000 to $250,000 the threshold for licensed or certified real estate appraisals on small business loans. Amends the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 to require the minimization of regulatory paperwork burden and costs of compliance under such Act for small banks with the highest (outstanding) compliance rating as determined under such Act. Exempts small banks rated outstanding from any documentation requirements. Outlines penalties and documentation requirements for small banks receiving a substantial noncompliance rating. Requires each appropriate Federal banking agency to: (1) review the extent to which this Act has reduced and eliminated unnecessary internal written policies. And (2) issue a recommendation as to whether this Act should be extended beyond the sunset date of three years after its enactment.
Price Stability Act of 2008 - Declares it is US policy that the principal economic responsibilities of the Government are to establish both long-term economic growth and increases in living standards, maintain free markets, low taxes, respect for private property, and the stable, long-term purchasing power of US currency. Declares that the promotion of price stability should be the primary long-term goal of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to revise the mandate of the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee to require them to: (1) establish a numerical definition of the term price stability. And (2) maintain a monetary policy that promotes long-term price stability. Requires the Board to consult with, and report to, Congress semi-annually about Board and Committee objectives and plans to achieve and maintain price stability. Repeals the Full Employment and Balanced Growth Act of 1978.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain small manufacturers a tax credit for their computer hardware and software expenses. Limits such credit to the lesser of 50 of such expenses or $35,000. Terminates such credit after 2011.
Directs the Secretary of Defense (DOD), in order to continue and expand the DOD study conducted in 2011, to establish the Commission on Urotrauma to: (1) conduct a study on urotrauma among members of the Armed Forces and veterans. And (2) provide an interim and final report to the congressional defense and veterans committees on such study.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Assessment of Programs and Policies for Combatting Proliferation Title II: Other Matters Combatting Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 - Title I: Assessment of Programs and Policies for Combatting Proliferation - Establishes the Commission on Programs and Policies for Combatting the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to study and report recommendations to the Congress for improving US organizations, policies, and programs relating to combatting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Other Matters - Requires the Director of Central Intelligence to report to the Congress every six months on: (1) the acquisition by foreign countries of technology relating to weapons of mass destruction and advanced conventional munitions, and (2) trends in such acquisition by such countries.
Veterans Education Equity Act of 2011 - Revises the formula for the payment by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) of tuition and fees for individuals entitled to educational assistance under the Post-911 Educational Assistance Program and pursuing programs of education at public institutions of higher learning to include, as an additional payment formula, the greater of: (1) the actual net costs for in-state tuition after applying the receipt of any tuition waivers, reductions, scholarships, or other assistance. Or (2) $17,500 for the academic year beginning on August 1, 2011 .
Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to develop a plan for the purchase, storage, and rotation of vaccines and submit it to Congress. Declares that the supply of vaccines should be sufficient to provide for adults and children, for a six-month period, all vaccinations routinely recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Directs the Secretary to require a manufacturer of a vaccine included in such supply to provide a one-year notice to the Secretary of a discontinuance of the manufacture of the vaccine or of other factors that may impede the supply of the vaccine. Permits a reduction of the period of notice for good cause. Authorizes appropriations through FY 2009.
Prohibits the interment or memorialization in a national or military cemetery of, or the performance of military funeral honors for, any person convicted of a federal or state capital crime for which a life sentence or the death penalty may be imposed. Directs the Secretaries of Veterans Affairs and Defense to prescribe regulations to ensure that a person is not interred in a national or military cemetery or provided funeral honors unless a good faith effort has been made to determine whether such person is ineligible for such interment or honors. Directs the Secretary of the Army to remove the remains of Russell Wayne Wagner from Arlington National Cemetery.
Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to transfer $1 million annually to each State Governor for use by independent citizens' councils established by this Act. Directs councils to review applications for and award SEARCH grants from such funds to small communities that: (1) are unable to secure funding or are underfunded for environmental projects. (2) have incurred unexpected expenses during construction of such a project. Or (3) need funds for initial feasibility or environmental studies before applying to traditional funding sources. Authorizes appropriations.
Helping Homeless Heroes Act of 2011 - Allows grants made by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) for homeless veterans' comprehensive services programs to be used for the construction of new facilities. Prohibits the Secretary from denying applications for such grants solely on the basis that the grant entity proposes to use funding from other private or public sources, as long as such entity demonstrates that a private nonprofit organization will provide project oversight and site control. Revises eligibility: (1) under the grant program for entities serving homeless veterans with special needs, and (2) for treatment and rehabilitation of homeless veterans who are not seriously mentally ill. Includes all individuals caring for minor dependents within the definition of homeless veterans with special needs. Directs the Secretary to submit to Congress a comprehensive plan to end homelessness among veterans. Requires the plan to consider circumstances and requirements unique to veterans located in rural areas. Extends provisions concerning: (1) homeless veterans' health care to December 31, 2012. (2) centers for provision of comprehensive services and property transfers for housing assistance to December 31, 2014. And (3) the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans to December 30, 2013.
Housing Assistance Authorization Act of 2007 - Prohibits the use of funds authorized by this Act to lobby or retain a lobbyist to influence a federal, state, or local governmental entity or officer. Authorizes the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide financial assistance to the Housing Assistance Council to develop the ability and capacity of community-based housing development organizations to undertake community development and affordable housing projects and programs in rural areas. Authorizes the Housing Assistance Council to use such assistance for: (1) technical assistance, training, support, and advice to develop the business and administrative capabilities of rural community-based housing development organizations. And (2) loans, grants, or other financial assistance to such organizations to carry out community development and affordable housing activities for low- and moderate-income families. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2010. Authorizes the Secretary also to make a grant to the Raza Development Fund to provide technical and financial assistance to local nonprofit organizations to undertake similar projects and programs serving low- and moderate-income households, particularly through organizations in neighborhoods with substantial populations of income-disadvantaged households of Hispanic origin. Authorizes the Fund to use such assistance to: (1) provide technical and financial assistance for site acquisition and development, construction financing, and short- and long-term financing for housing, community facilities, and economic development, (2) leverage capital from private entities. And (3) provide technical assistance, training, support, and advice to develop the management, financial, and administrative capabilities of housing development organizations serving such low-income households. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2010. Authorizes the Secretary to make a grant to the Housing Partnership Network to create, sustain, and improve access to affordable housing and community facilities benefiting very low-, low- and moderate-income households and communities. Authorizes the Network to use such assistance to: (1) make investments, loans, and grants to its member nonprofits that demonstrate expertise in using such funds to leverage additional private capital to build, operate, finance, and sustain affordable housing and related community development facilities. (2) make investments in entities sponsored by the Network with the intent to leverage additional private capital to further the production capacity, sustainability, or efficiency of its members. And (3) pay for the expenses of the Network to administer and oversee such investments. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2010. Directs the Comptroller General to audit entities or organizations receiving such funds. Prohibits the use of such funds to provide direct housing assistance to any person not lawfully present in the United States.
Medicare Telemedicine and Medical Informatics Demonstration Act of 1996 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, through the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, to make a grant to a consortium meeting specified criteria to provide for a project for the development and operation of telemedicine and medical informatics systems to demonstrate the application of high-capacity computing and advanced networks to the provision of health care to residents of medically underserved rural and inner-city areas. Requires the project to focus on Medicare beneficiaries and on improvements in primary care for residents with diabetes (mellitus). Lists project objectives, which include improving patient access to and compliance with appropriate care guidelines for chronic diseases through direct telecommunications link with information networks in order to improve patient quality-of-life and reduce overall health care costs. Authorizes appropriations.
Western Hemisphere Traveler Improvement Act of 2007 - Amends the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to require as part of the certifications required prior to implementation of the western hemisphere travel initiative (Initiative), that: (1) a pilot program of at least one state has been initiated and evaluated to determine if an enhanced driver's license valid only for citizenship verification for US entry from Canada meets documentation requirements. (2) a study has determined the number of passports and passport cards that will be required to be issued. And (3) sufficient passport adjudication personnel have been hired. Authorizes a person under 16 years old who is a US or Canadian citizen to enter the United States with a birth certificate if the person: (1) is accompanied by the individual's legal guardian. And (2) is entering the United States from Canada or Mexico. Authorizes a person under 18 years old to enter the United States with a birth certificate if the person is traveling under adult supervision with a public or private school group, religious group, social or cultural organization, or a youth sports team. Directs the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a state driver's license and identity card enrollment program to permit a US citizen with a qualifying driver's license or identity card or a Canadian citizen with a qualifying comparable document to enter the United States from Canada by land or sea without providing other citizenship documentation. Authorizes program expansion to include other countries. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to accept a birth certificate as proof of citizenship for any US citizen who is traveling from one part of a state to a noncontiguous part of that state through Canada if: (1) the citizen cannot travel by land to such part of the state without traveling through Canada. And (2) the travel in Canada is limited to no more than two hours. Directs the Secretary of State, during the two-year period beginning on the date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security publishes a final rule in the Federal Register to carry out the Initiative, to: (1) provide one facility in each of at least six designated cites or ports of entry in which a passport or passport card may be procured without an execution fee. And (2) develop at least six mobile teams along the US northern and southern borders to issue passports or other identity documents without an execution fee. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to do a cost-benefit analysis of the Initiative prior to publishing such final rule. States that Congress' intent in enacting section 546 of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2007 was to prevent the Secretary of Homeland Security from implementing the Initiative before the earlier of June 1, 2009, or the date on which the Secretary certifies to Congress that an alternative travel document has been developed and widely distributed to eligible US citizens. Amends the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to extend passport processing authorities for civil service and foreign service annuitants.
Secure Federal File Sharing Act - Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to issue guidance to: (1) prohibit the download, installation, or use by government employees and contractors of open-network peer-to-peer file sharing software on all federal computers, computer systems, and networks, unless approved in accordance with procedures under this Act. And (2) address the download, installation, or use by government employees and contractors of such software on home or personal computers as it relates to telework and remotely accessing federal computers, computer systems, and networks. Requires the Director to develop a procedure for receiving requests from heads or chief information officers of agencies for approval for use by government employees and contractors of specific open-network peer-to-peer file sharing software programs that are: (1) necessary for day-to-day business operations, for use in the course of a law enforcement investigation, or to perform official agency business. Or (2) instrumental in completing a particular task or project that directly supports the agency's overall mission. Requires the Director to direct agencies to: (1) establish or update personal use policies to be consistent with the guidance issued under this Act, (2) require contracts to require contractor compliance with that guidance. (3) update their information technology security or ethics training policies to ensure that all employees are aware of the requirements of that guidance and the consequences of engaging in prohibited conduct. And (4) ensure that proper security controls are in place to prevent, detect, and remove file sharing software that is prohibited. Requires the Director to report annually to specified congressional committees, including: (1) a justification for each open-network peer-to-peer file sharing software program that is approved under this Act. And (2) an inventory of the agencies where such programs are being used. Requires the budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, to be determined by reference to the latest statement titled Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
Local Zoning Preservation Act of 1999 - Amends provisions of the Communications Act of 1934 relating to the placement, construction, or modification of personal wireless service facilities to: (1) state that a decision by a State or local government to deny a request for the placement of such facilities must be supported by substantial evidence, including testimony by local residents expressing their concern about the impact of such facilities on the aesthetics, property values, and character of the local community. And (2) require a person seeking to place, construct, or modify a tower facility to bear the burden of proof that such action shall have no adverse effect on such community or any person.
Helping College Students Cross the Finish Line Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require the Secretary of Education to award grants to institutions of higher education (IHEs) to establish a financial assistance program that awards funds to at least 100 of the IHE's undergraduate or vocational students each academic year who: are enrolled on at least a half-time basis. Are academically able to complete the degree or certificate program in which they are enrolled within an academic year, are in good academic standing. If they previously received such an award, maintained good academic standing during the academic period for which they received such award. Are unable to fully pay an outstanding tuition payment that is due. And without financial assistance, will discontinue the degree or certificate program in which they are enrolled. Caps the amount of such award. Prohibits a student from receiving an award for more than two semesters or the equivalent of two semesters. Requires the IHEs to provide each student who receives an award that does not fully cover the amount due on the student's outstanding tuition with information on the financial assistance available from any other source. Directs the Secretary to create, and each student that receives an award to complete, an online financial literacy survey that includes matters relating to budgeting and saving, student loan debt, and career planning.
Veterans' Access to Child Care Act This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to provide child care assistance to an eligible veteran for any period that the veteran: (1) receives covered health care services at a VA facility, and (2) is required to travel to and return from such facility for the receipt of such services. The bill defines: (1) quot, covered health care servicesquot. To mean regular mental health care services, intensive mental health care services, or such other intensive health care services to which the VA determines that provision of child care assistance would improve the veteran's access, and (2) quot, eligible veteranquot. As a veteran who is the primary caretaker of a child and who is receiving covered health care services from the VA or who is in need of, and who would receive, such services from the VA but for lack of child care. Included among child care assistance to be provided under this bill are: a stipend for the payment of the full cost of child care offered by a licensed child care center, which shall be modeled after the VA's Child Care Subsidy Program, direct provision of child care at an on-site VA facility, a payment made directly to a private child care agency. And collaboration with a facility or program of another federal department or agency. The bill extends through September 30, 2026, the $90 monthly limit on a VA pension paid to veterans residing in nursing homes when their nursing costs are paid through title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act. The bill extends through December 31, 2024, VA authority to collect funding fees for certain VA, VA-guaranteed, or VA-insured housing loans.
Mortgage and Rental Disaster Relief Act of 2007 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to authorize the President to provide temporary assistance in the form of mortgage or rental payments to or on behalf of individuals and households who, as a result of financial hardship caused by a major disaster, have received written notice of dispossession or eviction from a residence because of a foreclosure of mortgage or lien, cancellation of sales contract, or lease termination, entered into before such disaster. Defines such a financial hardship to include: (1) the loss of employment or significant income because a job, a business, or a business interest was located in a disaster area. Or (2) suffering financially because of travel restrictions or station or road closures affecting residents of such area. Restricts eligibility for such assistance to individuals or households who have an adjusted gross income of not more than $75,000 . Directs the President to adjust the limits annually to reflect inflation. Allows assistance to be provided for the duration of the period of financial hardship caused by the disaster, not to exceed 18 months. Requires recipients determined to be ineligible to return the full amount of assistance to the government. Makes this Act applicable to any major disaster declared on or after October 21, 2007.
Electric Reliability Act of 2004 - Amends the Federal Power Act to extend Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) jurisdiction for purposes of approving reliability standards and enforcing compliance with this Act over a FERC-certified electric reliability organization (ERO), a regional entity, and users, owners, and operators of a bulk-power system. Prescribes procedural guidelines for: (1) certification as an ERO, (2) filing of reliability standards. And (3) imposition of penalties by either an ERO or FERC for noncompliance with this Act. Requires an ERO to file with FERC for approval of any proposed rule or rule change. Urges the President to negotiate international agreements with the governments of Canada and Mexico to provide for effective compliance with reliability standards and the efficacy of the ERO in the United States, Canada or Mexico. Requires an ERO to assess periodically the reliability and adequacy of the interconnected bulk-power system in North America. Directs FERC to establish a regional advisory body upon the petition of at least two-thirds of the States within a region that have more than half of their electric loads served within the region. Declares this Act inapplicable to Alaska or Hawaii.
Hospice Evaluation and Legitimate Payment Act of 2013 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act with respect to the face-to-face encounter framework in hospice care. Allows a clinical nurse specialist, physician assistant, or other health professional to conduct the face-to-face encounter with the individual to determine continued eligibility for hospice care before the first 60-day recertification period and each subsequent recertification. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a Medicare Hospital Payment Reform demonstration program to test any revisions to the methodology for determining payment rates for routine home care and other hospice care services. Sets at every three years the frequency of surveys of certified hospice programs.
Authorizes the Administrator to set aside amounts for grants to local community groups and nonprofit organizations to foster community involvement in the decision making process, environmental educational goals, and restoration strategies. Authorizes appropriations.
Distilled Spirits Tax Payment Simplification Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify or impose requirements regarding: (1) the transfer of distilled spirits between bonded premises. (2) operations as a bonded dealer conducted on the bonded premises of a distilled spirits plant. (3) establishment and operation of such a plant by a bonded dealer, (4) election to be treated as a bonded dealer. (5) the time at which the tax on distilled spirits is determined. (6) distilled spirits lost or destroyed in bond or returned to bonded premises. (7) the time for tax payment and payment by electronic transfer. And (8) application to a plant used by a bonded dealer of provisions relating to sales by proprietors of controlled premises. Directs the Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms to assess and collect registration fees to defray a portion of the costs resulting from the enactment of this Act. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to study and report to the Congress concerning cooperative agreements regarding the collection of distilled spirits excise taxes.
STEM Support for Teachers in Education and Mentoring (STEM) Act or the STEM 2 Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to award competitive planning grants to states, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, nonprofit organizations, or institutions of higher education (IHEs) to develop effective state or tribal science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) networks that coordinate STEM education efforts by: (1) facilitating communication and collaboration among public and private STEM stakeholders, and (2) identifying STEM occupational skills needed in the future. Directs the Secretary to award competitive grants to states, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, local educational agencies (LEAs), IHEs, or nonprofit organizations to develop, implement, and evaluate STEM education training programs for teachers and administrators in elementary, middle, and secondary schools and for preservice teachers in postsecondary schools. Requires the Secretary to award competitive grants to states, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, LEAs, public charter schools, IHEs, or nonprofit organizations to support curriculum development, assessments, or related activities that enable states to adopt new mathematics and science academic standards. Requires the Secretary to establish a national panel to identify and recommend the most effective STEM curricula models for kindergarten through grade 12.
Access to Obstetric Care Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) provide for demonstration projects to improve access to obstetric services in underserved urban and rural areas for eligible pregnant women under title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act. (2) develop and make public each year a compendium of State initiatives to address the obstetric access crisis. And (3) provide a grant for the study of obstetrical malpractice claims.
Directs the President to report to Congress every two years regarding executive branch actions taken to ensure that the interests of all refugees displaced from Arab countries, including Jews, Christians, and other groups, are considered in any final settlement of the Middle East refugee question that is part of any comprehensive Arab-Israeli peace.
Deadly Driver Reduction Act - Amends Federal transportation law to require the Secretary of Transportation to withhold five percent of the funds authorized for Federal aid highway programs for FY 2003, and ten percent of such amounts for subsequent fiscal years, from any State that has not enacted and is not enforcing a law that provides the following minimum sentences: (1) for a first conviction of operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, revocation of the driver's license for six months, imposition of a $500 fine, and an assessment of the individual's degree of alcohol abuse and appropriate treatment. (2) for a first conviction of operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of .16 or greater, revocation of the individual's license for six months, or two years if the individual refused to take a breath test to determine the individual's blood alcohol concentration, imposition of a requirement prohibiting the individual from operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of .05 or greater for five years, impoundment or immobilization of the individual's motor vehicle for 30 days, requiring the installation of an ignition interlock system on the individual's motor vehicle for 180 days, imposition of a $750 fine, ten days' imprisonment or 60 days' community service, and assessment of the individual's degree of alcohol abuse and appropriate treatment. (3) for a third conviction for operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, revocation of license for one year, or two years if the individual refused to take a breath test, imposition of a requirement prohibiting the individual from operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of .05 or greater for five years, impoundment or immobilization of the individual's motor vehicle for 60 days, requiring the installation of an ignition interlock system on the individual's motor vehicle for one year, imposition of a $1,000 fine, ten days' imprisonment or 60 days' community service, and assessment of the individual's degree of alcohol abuse and appropriate treatment. And (4) for a third or subsequent conviction for operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or for a second such conviction if the individual's first conviction was for operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of .16 or greater, permanent revocation of the individual's license . Allows funds withheld from a State during FY 2003 to be available for up to three fiscal years after such date , but allows no grace period with respect to funds withheld during the subsequent fiscal years.
Educational Flexibility Act - Amends the General Education Provisions Act to establish a program for flexibility and accountability in education and related services. Directs the Secretary of Education to assist projects for elementary and secondary schools and other service provides to improve achievement of all students and other participants, but particularly disadvantaged individuals, by authorizing waivers for States by which the performance of schools and programs can be improved by increasing their flexibility in use of resources while holding them accountable for achieving educational gains. Authorizes the Secretary to waive a statutory or regulatory requirement only with respect to programs under specified Federal laws relating to elementary, secondary, and vocational education and disadvantaged or homeless students. Authorizes other Federal agency heads, with the Secretary's agreement, to make similar waivers of such requirements applicable to an elementary, secondary, or youth vocational training program they administer. Limits duration of projects and associated waivers. Requires, to the extent possible, project participation by each grade and academic program in a participating school. Prohibits waiver of requirements: (1) in awarding new competitive grants to a service provider within the LEA or other applicant participating in such a project. (2) relating to maintenance of effort, comparability, or equitable participation of private school students. And (3) under specified provisions of certain Federal laws relating to individuals with disabilities.
Preventing Waste, Fraud, and Abuse Act of 2010 - Requires the Attorney General, the Commissioner of Social Security, and the Secretaries of Health and Human Services (HHS), Labor, and the Treasury , in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to: (1) identify existing federal laws and regulations that may impede the ability to decrease waste, fraud, and abuse of funds appropriated to their agencies. And (2) develop appropriate performance metrics to measure success in decreasing waste, fraud, and abuse. Directs each agency head, in developing performance metrics, to: (1) ensure that such metrics accurately demonstrate the effectiveness of specified programs and activities in decreasing waste, fraud, and abuse. (2) provide estimates for points of diminishing returns on the funds provided under this Act to increase program integrity efforts. (3) identify optimal baselines for each of the metrics developed and appropriate methods to measure variations from such baselines. And (4) set performance targets for each of FY2012-FY2020. Requires each agency head to make appropriate accommodations for innovation and development to address the program integrity efforts for programs and activities identified by this Act. Requires: (1) each agency head to submit an interim and final report to Congress at specified intervals and to publish in the Federal Register and make available on the agency website the performance metrics set forth in the final report. And (2) the Director of OMB to report annually measuring success in decreasing waste, fraud, and abuse of funds appropriated to an agency.
Shirley A. Chisholm United States-Caribbean Educational Exchange Act of 2009 - Authorizes the Secretary of State to establish the Shirley Chisholm United States-Caribbean Educational Exchange Program under which scholars and secondary, undergraduate, graduate, and post-graduate students from certain Caribbean countries would attend US schools and participate in activities designed to promote a greater understanding of US values and culture. Authorizes the Secretary, through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), to establish a program to improve primary and secondary education in such countries by enhancing teacher training, strengthening curriculum and instructional materials, and assisting improvements in school management and public administration of education.
Amends the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1998 with respect to grants to tribally controlled postsecondary vocational and technical institutions that are not receiving federal support under the Tribally Controlled College or University Assistance Act of 1978 or the Navajo Community College Act to provide basic support for the education and training of Indian students. Revises the definition of Indian student count .
Pregnant Workers Fairness Act Declares that it is an unlawful employment practice for employers, employment agencies, labor organizations, and other specified entities to: (1) fail to make reasonable accommodations to known limitations related to the pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions of job applicants or employees, unless the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on such an entity's business operation. (2) deny employment opportunities based on the need of the entity to make such reasonable accommodations. (3) require such job applicants or employees to accept an accommodation that they choose not to accept, if such accommodation is unnecessary to perform the job. (4) require such employees to take paid or unpaid leave if another reasonable accommodation can be provided to their known limitations. Or (5) take adverse action in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment against an employee requesting or using such reasonable accommodations. Sets forth enforcement procedures and remedies under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991, and the rights and protections extended to presidential offices. Directs the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to issue regulations to carry out this Act, including the identification of reasonable accommodations addressing known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. Prohibits state immunity under the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution from an action for a violation of this Act.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Salton Sea Feasibility Study Title II: Emergency Action to Improve Water Quality in the Alamo River and New River Salton Sea Reclamation Act of 1998 - Title I: Salton Sea Feasibility Study - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, by January 1, 2000, to complete all feasibility studies and cost analyses with respect to a feasibility study for the reclamation of the Salton Sea, located in Imperial and Riverside Counties, California, which shall include options for achieving salinity reduction and stabilization, stabilizing surface elevation, restoring fish and wildlife resources, and enhancing recreational use and economic development. Requires a report to specified congressional committees containing proposed options and recommendations. Directs the Secretary to carry out the study under a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary, the Salton Sea Authority, and the Governor of California. Prohibits the inclusion of any option that relies on the importation of any new or additional water from the Colorado River. Preserves all current rights and obligations concerning Colorado River water use. Directs the Secretary to conduct, concurrently with the feasibility study, studies of hydrology, wildlife pathology, and toxicology relating to wildlife resources of the Salton Sea by Federal and non-Federal sources. Directs the Secretary to establish the Salton Sea Research Management Committee to select and manage such studies. Authorizes appropriations. Renames the Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge as the Sonny Bono Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge. Title II: Emergency Action to Improve Water Quality in the Alamo River and New River - Authorizes and directs the Secretary to promptly conduct research and construct river reclamation and wetlands projects to improve water quality in the Alamo and New Rivers in Imperial County, California, by treating water in those rivers and irrigation drainage water that flows into those rivers. Directs the Secretary to establish a long-term monitoring program to maximize the effectiveness of any wetlands developed under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Homeowner Empowerment Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exclude from gross income distributions from individual retirement plans and other qualified retirement plans for payments on the mortgage of a taxpayer's principal residence. (2) require repayments of amounts distributed from such retirement plans over a 12-year period. And (3) waive the 10 penalty on premature distributions from retirement plans for distributions used to pay a mortgage.
Export Promotion Enhancement Act of 2008 - Amends the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to establish in the Executive Office of the President the Office of Trade Promotion. (Currently, there exists a Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee Requires the Office to perform duties currently assigned to the TPCC, as well as advise the President and others within the Executive Office on matters relating to trade promotion policies and programs of the US Government. Requires the President to appoint an Office Director. Authorizes the President to appoint up to two Associate Directors. Directs the President to establish the Advisory Board on Trade Promotion to advise the Office Director.
Reclamation Rural and Small Community Water Enhancement Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to undertake a program to investigate and identify opportunities for ensuring safe and adequate regional rural water supply systems for use in small communities and rural areas through the construction of new regional systems and the enhancement of existing ruralsystems. Limits participation in such program to the States and areas referred to in the Reclamation Act of 1902. Requires the Secretary to: (1) submit to specified congressional committees a report setting forth the status of all rural water projects within the Secretary's jurisdiction authorized prior to enactment of this Act and the Secretary 's plan for completing such projects within their respective time frames. And (2) take steps to complete such projects within such time frames. Authorizes the Secretary to undertake appraisal investigations to identify opportunities for the construction of new systems and enhancement of existing systems for small communities and rural areas. And (2) participate with appropriate Federal, State, tribal, regional, and local authorities in studies to determine the feasibility of such projects where such an investigation so warrants.
Medicare Fair Drug Pricing Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS) to negotiate with drug manufacturers in determining the price that may be charged for prescription drugs under the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Under current law, CMS may not interfere with negotiations between drug manufacturers and prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsors. The bill creates an exception to this prohibition with respect to specified drugs that: (1) are single-source or biological, (2) are not both manufactured by more than two drug manufacturersnbsp. And manufactured by at least one manufacturer as a generic drug, and (3) meet other specified requirements. CMS must promulgate regulations regarding the identification of such drugs. With respect tonbsp. These drugs, CMS shall negotiate the price that may be charged to PDP sponsors and Medicare Advantage (MA) organizations for Medicare and MA enrollees. The bill establishes processes for negotiation and price determination in the initial plan year and subsequent plan years. A manufacturer must participate in the negotiation process as a condition of coverage under the Medicare prescription drug benefit.
Stop Tuberculosis (TB) Now Act of 2007 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to require the President to furnish assistance for tuberculosis (TB) prevention, treatment, and elimination. Gives priority to activities described in the Stop TB Strategy . Revises related fund use provisions. Authorizes the President, through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), to provide increased resources to the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Stop Tuberculosis Partnership to improve the capacity of countries with high TB rates and other affected countries to implement the Stop TB Strategy and specific strategies related to addressing drug resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB). Authorizes: (1) FY2008-FY2009 appropriations for the President to carry activities to combat tuberculosis. And (2) set-asides from such amounts for global tuberculosis activities by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Requires awards to be based on one or more of the following factors: (1) quality of existing or proposed violence prevention program, (2) greatest need for crisis intervention counseling services. And (3) documented financial need based on number of students served under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA). Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Increased COPS Funding - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to extend through FY 2004 the authorization of appropriations for certain grant programs for Community Policing and Cops on the Beat . Requires 50 percent of such funds to be used for cooperative partnerships between schools and State and local police departments to provide for the use of police officers in schools. Eliminates provisions for decreasing Federal matching funds and for terminating grant program authority . Title III: 21st Century Learning - Amends ESEA to extend through FY 2004 the authorization of appropriations for after-school and life skills programs for at-risk youth. Title IV: Model Program and Clearinghouse - Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop a model violence prevention program to be made available to LEAs. And (2) establish and maintain a national clearinghouse to provide LEAs with information on alternative violence prevention programs, and technical assistance to establish and to operate such programs.
Army Arsenal Strategic Workload Enhancement Act of 2012 - Directs the Secretary of Defense (Secretary) to develop and promulgate guidelines for the Department of Defense (DOD), defense agencies, and military services to have supplies, components, end items, parts, assemblies, and sub-assemblies made in factories or arsenals owned by the United States, to the extent that such factories or arsenals can make such supplies and parts on an economical basis while preserving the ability to provide an effective and timely response to mobilizations, national defense contingency situations, and other emergency requirements. Requires the Secretary of the Army to: (1) assign government-owned and operated Army factories and arsenals sufficient workload to ensure cost efficiency and technical competence in peacetime, while preserving the response ability described above. And (2) make Army arsenals available to DOD, the defense agencies, and military services for the procurement of supplies, components, parts, systems, and subsystems. Directs: (1) the Secretary to report annually to Congress on Army arsenal capabilities, workload, performance, and required capital investments. And (2) the Comptroller General to review each report for completeness and compliance and provide findings to the congressional defense committees.
Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit a telecommunications carrier or a reseller of telecommunications services from submitting or executing a change in a subscriber's selection of a provider of telephone exchange service or toll service, except in accordance with this Act and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) verification procedures. Requires a carrier or reseller, in verifying a subscriber's selection of a telephone exchange or toll service provider, to require the subscriber to: (1) acknowledge the type of service to be changed by the selection, (2) affirm the intent to select the service provider. (3) affirm that the consumer is the subscriber or is authorized to make such selection for that telephone number. (4) acknowledge that such selection will result in a change of service provider. And (5) provide any other such information the FCC considers appropriate for the subscriber's protection. Requires FCC selection verification procedures to: (1) preclude the use of negative option marketing. (2) provide for verification of a change of provider in oral, written, or electronic form. And (3) require the retention of such verification in a manner and form and for such time as the FCC considers appropriate. Makes the above provisions inapplicable to providers of commercial mobile service. Requires a carrier or reseller selected by a subscriber to notify the subscriber in writing not more than 15 days after the change is processed by the carrier or reseller: (1) of the subscriber's new carrier. And (2) that the subscriber may request information regarding the date of the change and the individual authorizing the change. Requires the FCC to: (1) prescribe a period not to exceed 120 days after receipt of notice of a complaint of an unauthorized change for the carrier or reseller to resolve such complaint. And (2) provide a simplified process for resolving such complaints. Authorizes the FCC, in resolving a complaint, to award damages of: (1) the greater amount of $500 or actual damages. Or (2) three times such amount. Provides penalties for violations of this Act and authorizes the FCC to collect fines and damages. Treats an initiation of service as a change in a subscriber's selection for purposes of this Act. Authorizes a State, when it has reason to believe that a carrier or reseller has or is engaged in a practice of changing service providers without subscriber authority, to bring an action on behalf of its residents to enjoin such changes and to recover damages. Gives Federal courts exclusive jurisdiction over such actions. Requires FCC notification of, and authorizes FCC intervention in, any such action. Requires the FCC to report to the Congress on unauthorized changes in subscribers' providers. Directs the FCC to issue a report on the telemarketing practices used by carriers or resellers to solicit changes by subscribers in their service providers. Authorizes the FCC to initiate a rulemaking to prohibit particular practices it determines are being used with the intention to mislead, deceive, or confuse subscribers.
Russian Democracy Act of 2002 - Declares it shall be US policy to: (1) facilitate Russia's integration into the Western community of nations, including supporting the establishment of a stable democracy and a market economy within the framework of the rule of law and respect for individual rights, and including its membership in appropriate international institutions. (2) engage the Government of the Russian Federation and Russian society to strengthen democratic reform and institutions, and to promote transparency and good governance in all aspects of society, including fair and honest business practices, accessible and open legal systems, freedom of religion, and respect for human rights. (3) incorporate democratic reforms, the promotion of an independent media, and economic reforms in a broader US dialogue with such Government. (4) encourage such Government to address, in a cooperative and transparent manner consistent with internationally recognized and accepted principles, cross-border issues, including the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, environmental degradation, crime, trafficking, and corruption. (5) consult with such Government and the Russian Parliament on the adoption of economic and social reforms necessary to sustain Russian economic growth and to ensure Russia's transition to a market economy and membership in the World Trade Organization. (6) persuade the Government of the Russian Federation to honor its commitments to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) at the November 1999 Istanbul Conference and to be a good neighbor toward other independent states of the former Soviet Union in the spirit of internationally accepted principles of regional cooperation. And (7) encourage G-8 partners and international financial institutions, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to develop financial safeguards and transparency practices in lending to the Russian Federation. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to include among activities eligible for US assistance to the independent states of the former Soviet Union any activities for the promotion of democracy, rule of law, transparency, international exchanges and other forms of public diplomacy, human rights, economic reforms, administration of justice, and the development of a free and independent media in Russia. Authorizes the President to carry out specified related activities in providing such assistance to Russia. Urges Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty and the Voice of America to use new and innovative techniques, in cooperation with local independent media sources and using local languages as appropriate and as possible, to disseminate information throughout the Russian Federation relating to democracy, free-market economics, rule of law, and human rights. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2003.
National Immunization Improvement Act of 1993 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a program to award grants to States for the development and operation of computerized State registries to collect, track, and monitor immunization data with respect to children. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Secretary to conduct specified activities to improve Federal, State, and local vaccine delivery systems and immunization outreach and education efforts. Authorizes appropriations.
Aviation Safety Enhancement Act of 2008 - Establishes in the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) an Aviation Safety Whistleblower Investigation Office, with a Director appointed by the Secretary of Transportation, which shall receive and assess complaints and information relating to possible violations of aviation safety laws and regulations. Directs the FAA Administrator to modify the FAA customer service initiative, mission and vision, and other policy statements to: (1) remove any reference to air carriers or other entities regulated by the FAA as customers. (2) state that in regulating safety the only FAA customers are individuals traveling on aircraft. And (3) state that air carriers and other entities regulated by the FAA do not have the right to select the FAA employees who will inspect their operations. Prohibits any person holding an air carrier operating certificate from knowingly employing, or contracting with, an individual to act as an agent or representative of the certificate holder in any matter before the FAA if, in the preceding two-year period, the individual: (1) served as, or was responsible for oversight of, an FAA flight standards inspector. And (2) had responsibility to inspect, or oversee inspection of, the operations of the certificate holder. Prohibits any individual serving as a principal supervisory inspector of the FAA from being responsible for overseeing the operations of a single air carrier for a continuous period of more than five years. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the FAA Administrator to establish a process by which the FAA air transportation oversight system database is reviewed by a team of FAA employees on a monthly basis to ensure that: (1) any trends in regulatory compliance are identified, and (2) appropriate corrective actions are taken.
Annuity Safety and Security Under Reasonable Enforcement Act of 2013 or the ASSURE Act of 2013 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to direct the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB) to issue regulations requiring any payment to a recipient of a federal or military pension that diminishes the benefit recipient's ability to control payments from such pension to be treated as an extension of credit. Requires financial institutions to include the terms of such credit in consumer information disclosures. Prohibits the annual percentage rate of interest on such arrangements from exceeding the federal funds rate plus 6 or an equivalent aggregate amount of cash and property. Specifies conditions under which payment of consideration in exchange for the retired pay of enlisted military members is prohibited from assignment under veterans' benefits laws. Prohibits individuals from making allotments or assignments from annuities under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS), including any agreement under which another person acquires for consideration the right to receive payment from such annuities as well as any arrangement for collateral for security for such an agreement. Exempts union dues or payments to employee organizations from such prohibitions. Authorizes benefit recipients, individuals entitled to military retired pay, and annuity recipients to bring a private legal action in federal or state court against an assignee engaging in prohibited assignments. Amends the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to direct the CFPB to issue regulations requiring persons offering federal or military pension-related products to provide additional disclosures when advertising or selling such products to allow consumers to understand how their pension relates to the product.
Natural Disaster Tax Relief Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow penalty-free distributions from individual retirement plans to pay acquisition costs to replace a principal residence that was destroyed or substantially damaged by the disasters Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki, or Typhoon Omar. Allows a farmer who has income derived from the sale or exchange of crops grown in such disaster areas, to elect to defer such income for the next taxable year. Provides a special rule for the self-employment tax. Requires the nonrecognition of gain of insurance proceeds for the contents of principal residences compulsorily or involuntarily converted as a result of a presidentially-declared disaster. Allows insurance proceeds from personal property and real property to be lumped together into one common fund. Extends the time to replace a principal residence so converted from two years to four years. Waives certain requirements with respect to low-income housing in areas damaged by the disasters Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki, or Typhoon Omar. Waives the dollar limitation for home improvement loans through mortgage revenue bonds for residences in such disaster areas.
Identify sic Theft and Tax Fraud Prevention Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) impose a fine andor prison term on any person who knowingly or willfully misappropriates another person's tax identification number in connection with any list, return, account, statement, or other document submitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) increase the civil and criminal penalties for improper disclosure or use of taxpayer information by tax return preparers. (3) require the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to submit to the Senate Committee on Finance and the House Committee on Ways and Means an annual report on the number of reported cases of tax fraud and suspected tax fraud and the actions taken in response to such reports. And (4) require the head of the Federal Bureau of Prisons to submit to Congress a detailed plan on how it will use tax information provided by the IRS to reduce prison tax fraud. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) implement an identity theft tax fraud prevention program. And (2) review whether current federal tax law prevents the effective enforcement of local, state, and federal identity theft statutes. Authorizes the Commissioner to transfer appropriated funds to be used solely to prevent and resolve potential tax fraud cases. Directs the Commissioner to establish in the Criminal Investigation Division of the IRS the position of Local Law Enforcement Liaison to coordinate the investigation of tax fraud with state and local law enforcement agencies and communicate the status of tax fraud cases involving identity theft. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report on the role of prepaid debit cards and commercial tax preparation software in facilitating fraudulent tax returns through identity theft. Prohibits the Secretary of Commerce from disclosing information contained on the Death Master File relating to a deceased individual to persons who are not certified to access such information.
This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify the rules and administrative provisions governing the US Tax Court, a court established under Article I of the Constitution. TITLE I TAXPAYER ACCESS TO UNITED STATES TAX COURT This section changes the period for filing an action in the Tax Court for review of a denial by the Department of the Treasury of a request to abate interest. The action may be filed in Tax Court at any time after the earlier of the date of the mailing of Treasury's final determination not to abate such interest or the date that is 180 days after the filing of a claim for abatement, but not later that 180 days after Treasury's final determination. This section allows the filing of an action in Tax Court for review of a denial to abate interest not exceeding $50,000 as a small tax case, thus providing for expedited review. This section provides that: (1) venue in an innocent spouse relief petition is the legal residence of the petitioner. And (2) venue in a collection due process proceeding is the legal residence of an individual petitioner or the principal place of business or principal office or agency if the the petitioner is an entity other than an individual. An innocent spouse relief petition is a petition filed by a husband or wife claiming, in good faith, ignorance of violations of tax law by the other spouse , thus resulting in unexpected tax liability for the innocent spouse. This section provides for a suspension of the running of the period of limitations on filing petitions for innocent spouse relief and a collection due process hearing for taxpayers in bankruptcy who are prohibited from filing such petitions. This section makes the Federal Rules of Evidence applicable to proceedings of the Tax Court. TITLE II UNITED STATES TAX COURT ADMINISTRATION This section directs the Tax Court to prescribe rules for the filing of complaints with respect to the conduct of any judge or magistrate judge of the Court and for the investigation and resolution of such complaints. In investigating and taking action on any complaint, the Court shall have the powers granted to a judicial council under the federal judicial code. (Section202) This section grants the Tax Court the same management, administrative, and expenditure authority as is granted to other federal courts with general jurisdiction under Article III of the Constitution. The Chief Judge may summon the judges and magistrate judges of the Court to an annual judicial conference to consider the business of the Court and make recommendations to improve the administration of justice with the jurisdiction of the Court. The Court may impose a reasonable registration fee on persons, other than judges and magistrate judges, who attend the judicial conference to defray costs of the conference. All fees received by the Tax Court shall be deposited into a special fund of the Treasury and made available to offset funds appropriated for the operation and maintenance of the Court. TITLE III CLARIFICATION RELATING TO UNITED STATES TAX COURT This section declares that the Tax Court is not an agency of, and shall be independent of, the executive branch.
United States Independent Film and Television Production Incentive Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish an annual tax credit for 25 percent of up to the first $25,000 of qualified wages paid or incurred per qualified US independent film and television production.
National Geologic Mapping Reauthorization Act of 1996 - Amends the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 to establish a national cooperative geologic mapping program between the US Geological Survey and State geological surveys. Establishes a geologic mapping advisory committee to advise the Director of the US Geological Survey on planning and implementation of the geological mapping program. Authorizes appropriations.
US Agricultural Sector Relief Act of 2012 - Amends the Clean Air Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), pursuant to an application submitted by any person, to seek a critical use exemption under the Montreal Protocol to allow the production, importation, and consumption of methyl bromide: (1) for any approved critical use that is determined by the Administrator to be a critical use for the applicant, and (2) in the amount necessary for such use. Prohibits the Administrator from denying such an application or reducing the amount requested unless the Administrator: (1) has substantial evidence that there is a technically and economically feasible alternative available to the applicant for such use of methyl bromide, and (2) provides such evidence to the applicant in writing. Requires the Administrator, when evaluating the technical and economic feasibility of any alternative, to consider: (1) cost and commercial availability of the alternative, (2) demonstrated effectiveness of the alternative for the applicant's specific intended use, (3) demonstrated effectiveness of the alternative in the geographic region of the applicant's intended use, and (4) state or local regulations that may restrict use of the alternative for the applicant's intended use. Requires the Administrator, pursuant to an application, to allow the production, importation, and consumption of methyl bromide for any approved critical use in response to an emergency event, in an amount necessary for such use, not to exceed: (1) per emergency event at a specific location, 20 metric tons, or (2) in the aggregate for emergency use in the United Sates in a year, the total amount authorized pursuant to the Montreal Protocol process for critical uses in the United States in calendar year 2011. Requires the Administrator to ensure that sufficient quantities of methyl bromide are available for research on methyl bromide alternatives for the agricultural sector. Requires the Administrator to review and adjust as appropriate, any critical use nomination for production, importation, or consumption of methyl bromide in the United States that has been submitted to the Parties to the Montreal Protocol if: (1) a methyl bromide alternative is removed from the US market. And (2) on the basis of the availability of such alternative, the Administrator denied, or reduced the amount requested under, any application for production, importation, or consumption of methyl bromide for the year covered by such nomination.
Enhancing Educational Opportunities for all Students Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to allow a state educational agency to allocate grant funds among local educational agencies based on the number of eligible children nbsp. Enrolled in the public schools and the state-accredited private schools within each local agency's geographic jurisdiction. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow payment of home school expenses from Coverdell education savings accounts. (2) remove the dollar limitation on contributions to Coverdell education savings accounts and require such accounts to provide adequate safeguards to prevent contributions from exceeding the amount necessary to provide for the qualified education expenses of the account beneficiary. And (3) allow tax-exempt qualified tuition programs to pay qualified pre-kindergarten, elementary, and secondary education expenses.
Antitrust Video Competition Improvement Act of 1998 - Provides that it shall be sufficient evidence in a civil action to establish a presumption of a violation of section 1 , 2 , or 3 of the Sherman Act that a multichannel video programming distributor (MVPD) with market power in a particular market has: (1) acted by means of an exclusive contract to prevent a MVPD competitor in that market from obtaining particular video programming from any person. And (2) obtained particular video programming from any person on terms and conditions other than terms justified by demonstrable cost differentials that are more favorable than those offered by such person to another MVPD competitor.
Cape Town Treaty Implementation Act of 2004 - Provides for implementation of the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment, as modified by the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters Specific to Aircraft Equipment, signed at Rome on May 9, 2003, or Cape Town Treaty . Amends Federal aviation law to revise requirements for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) system for recording conveyances that affect an interest in US civil aircraft. Reduces from 750 to 550 the rated take-off horsepower of any specifically identified aircraft engine with respect to which leases and security instruments are to be recorded in such system. Designates the FAA Civil Aviation Registry as the United States Entry Point to the International Registry with respect to: (1) US aircraft, (2) aircraft engines. And (3) any aircraft for which a US identification number has been assigned, but only with regard to a notice filed under a system established by the Administrator for filing notices of prospective assignments and prospective international interests in, and prospective sales of, aircraft or aircraft engines under the Cape Town Treaty. Directs the FAA Administrator to establish such a system. Requires related documents to be filed for recordation within 60 days after such a notice is filed, or the notice, and any related registration with the International Registry, shall not be valid. Makes any registration with the International Registry relating to an aircraft valid only if the person seeking the registration first files documents meeting the recordation requirements, and the US Entry Point authorizes the registration. Directs the Administrator to issue regulations which specify, at a minimum, the requirements for: (1) the registration of aircraft previously registered in a country in which the Cape Town Treaty is in effect. And (2) the cancellation of registration of a US civil aircraft based on a request made in accordance with the Cape Town Treaty.
Andrew Jackson Higgins Gold Medal Act - Authorizes the President to present on behalf of Congress a gold medal to: (1) the family of Andrew Jackson Higgins, honoring his contributions to the Nation and world peace. And (2) the D-Day Museum in New Orleans, Louisiana, for public display, honoring Higgins and the employees of Higgins Industries for their contributions to the Nation and world peace. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to strike and sell bronze duplicates.
Imported and Domestic Product Safety Act of 2009 - Establishes in the Department of Commerce an Office of Imported and Domestic Product Safety to carry out specified duties, including: (1) coordinating all departments and agencies that have product safety responsibilities in a way that protects the health and safety of US consumers and provides consumers and businesses with access to product safety information, (2) improving the www. Recalls. gov website. And (3) developing a publicly accessible database with information about all mandatory and voluntary product safety actions taken by businesses, departments, and agencies. Establishes a Product Safety Coordinating Council to assist the Office's director.
Authorizes appropriations for FY 1997 and for each of the four succeeding fiscal years for awards to National Science Scholars. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to carry out a program of awarding scholarships to students for the study of the physical, life, or computer sciences, mathematics, or engineering. Deems students awarded such scholarships National Science Scholars. Sets forth the selection of scholars for initial awards and eligibility requirements for initial and continuation awards and directs the Secretary to notify all public and private secondary schools and all higher education institutions in each State annually of the availability of scholarships. Limits the amount of a scholarship awarded for any academic year to $5,000. Requires that students receiving scholarships shall be given priority consideration for federally financed summer employment in federally funded research and development centers that, to the maximum extent practicable, complements and reinforces the educational program of these students.
Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Treatment Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) establish a program to screen veterans eligible for Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospital, medical, and nursing home care for symptoms of traumatic brain injury (TBI). (2) develop and carry out a program of long-term care for post-acute TBI rehabilitation. (3) establish a TBI transition office at each VA polytrauma network site to coordinate the provision of health care and services to veterans who suffer from moderate to severe TBI and are in need of health care and services not immediately offered by the VA. And (4) establish and maintain the Traumatic Brain Injury Veterans' Health Registry.
Infrastructure Reinvestment and Economic Revitalization Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require the Secretary of the Treasury to pay from time to time from the Highway Trust Fund into the Infrastructure Reinvestment Fund Reinvestment Fund amounts equivalent to 2.5 cents per gallon of the taxes imposed on diesel and special motor fuels and on the removal, entry, or sale of gasoline between September 30, 1994, and October 1, 2024. Establishes the Infrastructure Reinvestment Fund. Makes the Fund off-budget. Authorizes appropriations from such Fund for surface transportation programs.
Grants congressional consent to and approval of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence River Basin Water Resources Compact entered into between the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, and Wisconsin, and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Reserves the right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act.
Freedom Consolidation Act of 2001 - Reaffirms support for continued enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Alliance. Designates Slovakia for participation in the Partnership for Peace and eligible to receive certain security assistance under the NATO Participation Act of 1994. Authorizes specified amounts of security assistance for FY 2002 for Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria, and Romania.
Housing Opportunity and Mortgage Equity Act of 2009 - Directs the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation to implement a program to purchase and securitize qualified refinancing mortgages and qualified new mortgages on single-family housing in accordance with policies and procedures established by the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Sets forth requirements for the purchase and securitization of qualified mortgages. Directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to establish a credit facility of the Federal Reserve System to make credit available to the enterprises at interest rates comparable to certain rates on securities issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. Terminates the requirement under this Act for the enterprises to purchase mortgages after December 31, 2010.
White House Quadrennial Small Business Summit Act of 2001 - Mandates a national White House Quadrennial Summit on Small Business, once every four years, to undertake specified actions with respect to the recognition, development, and promotion of American small business. Requires each Quadrennial Summit to be preceded by a State Summit on Small Business. Establishes the White House Quadrennial Commission on Small Business to: (1) conduct the Quadrennial and State Summits to bring together individuals concerned with issues relating to small business. And (2) appoint a Summit Advisory Committee from participants at the last Quadrennial Summit. Directs the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration to assist in carrying out the Quadrennial and State Summits. Requires each Summit's Commission to report to the President and the chairpersons and ranking members of the congressional small business committees on its findings, recommendations, and proposals for legislative changes to implement such recommendations. Authorizes appropriations.
Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering, and Development Act of 2002 - Amends Federal aviation law to authorize appropriations out of the Airport and Airway Trust Fund for FY 2003 through 2005 for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for specified aviation research and development (RD) projects. Requires the Administrators of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), to submit to specified congressional committees an updated integrated civil aviation RD plan that coordinates national aviation safety and security research programs of NASA, the FAA, and the TSA. Directs the Administrator of the FAA to continue the program to consider awards to nonprofit concrete pavement research foundations to improve the design, construction, rehabilitation, and repair of rigid concrete airfield pavements to aid in the development of safer, more cost-effective, and more durable airfield pavements. Directs the Administrator of the FAA to review and determine, and report the results to specified congressional committees on, whether FAA standards for airfield pavements are in accordance with its standard 20-year-life requirement using the most up-to-date available information on the life of airfield pavements. Directs the Administrator of the FAA, in coordination with the Administrator of NASA, to participate in a national air traffic management RD initiative designed to meet national long-term aviation security, safety, and capacity needs. Directs the Administrator of the FAA to enter into an arrangement with the National Research Council to assess, and report the results to specified congressional committees on, the FAA's proposed wake turbulence RD program. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2003. Authorizes the FAA to conduct research to promote the development of analytical tools to improve existing certification methods and to reduce the overall costs to manufacturers for the certification of new products. Authorizes the FAA to establish a research program to answer questions about cabin air quality of aircraft. Authorizes the Administrator of the FAA to include, as part of the FAA's research program, a systematic review and assessment of the specific causes of airport delay at the 31 airports identified in the Airport Benchmarking Study, on an airport-by-airport basis.
National Traumatic Brain Injury Research and Treatment Improvement Act of 2015 Requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to: (1) evaluate existing surveillance and data collection systems that track the incidence and circumstances of traumatic brain injury, including concussion. (2) establish a statistically sound, scientifically credible, and integrated National Traumatic Brain Injury Surveillance System. And (3) ensure that the System is designed in a manner that facilitates further research on brain injury. Requires the CDC to make information and analysis in the System available to the public and ensure that privacy and security protections applicable to the System are at least as stringent as those under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
Restoring the Partnership for County Health Care Costs Act of 2015 This bill amends titles XVI , XVIII (Medicare), XIX (Medicaid), and XXI (CHIP) to allow an otherwise eligible individual whonbsp. Is in custody pending charges to receive SSI, Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP benefits. Any SSI benefits payable to such an individual: (1)nbsp. Must be withheld until the individual is no longer in custody, nbsp. And (2) if the individual dies while in custody, shall be paid to the individual's estate. nbsp, 
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on April 22, 2013. Harriet Tubman National Historical Parks Act - Establishes in Caroline, Dorchester, and Talbot Counties, Maryland, the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park as a unit of the National Park System. Establishes in Auburn, New York, the Harriet Tubman National Historical Park also as a unit of the National Park System. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter into cooperative agreements with certain entities for the historical preservation and interpretation of the parks. Requires the Secretary to complete a general management plan for the parks. Amends the Water Resources Development Act of 1996 to decrease the federal share of project costs for navigation and safety improvements to the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal and Baltimore Harbor Connecting Channels in Delaware and Maryland.
Minority Business Development Improvements Act of 2009 - Requires the Director of the Minority Business Development Agency to establish the Minority Business Development Program to provide qualified minority businesses with technical assistance, loan guarantees, and contract procurement assistance. Outlines minority business qualification requirements for the Program, including that: (1) not less than 51 of the entity be directly and unconditionally owned by historically disadvantaged individuals. And (2) each officer or other individual exercising control over regular operations is a historically disadvantaged individual. Outlines specific types of technical assistance and loan guarantees authorized under the Program. Provides loan guarantee limits. Authorizes the Director to enter into agreements for the fulfillment of federal procurement contracts by, and contracting opportunities for, qualified minority businesses. Provides contract limits. Allows the Director to terminate a qualified minority business from the Program under specified circumstances.
Country of Origin Labeling Amendment Act of 2003 - Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to revise country of origin labeling provisions, including: (1) specifying the model certification of origin program, (2) specifying producer protections, (3) reducing maximum retailer fines. (4) prohibiting treatment of country of origin violations as adulteration or misbranding, and (5) extending the implementing guideline deadline.
Weather and Oceans Resources Realignment Act - Transfers all functions of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to the Department of the Interior.
Security Enhancement and Jobs Act of 2011 - Transfers from the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security (DOT) to the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) the authority to approve, within 120 days after receipt, any application of an airport operator to have the screening of passengers and property at an airport be carried out by the screening personnel of a qualified private screening company . Requires the Secretary to approve such an application unless approval would compromise security, detrimentally affect the efficiency or effectiveness of screening, or otherwise adversely affect the mission of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Authorizes the Secretary to carry out this Act acting through the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security (TSA).
Madera Water Supply Enhancement Act - Finds that: (1) the Bureau of Reclamation and others have conducted numerous studies regarding the Madera Water Supply Enhancement Project, California, (2) the Project is feasible. And (3) the Bureau shall not conduct any further studies or reports related to determining its feasibility. Requires all planning, design, and construction of the Project to be undertaken in accordance with a cooperative agreement between the Secretary and the Madera Irrigation District. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a cooperative agreement for the support of Project design and construction. Limits the federal share of Project capital costs to 25. Considers: (1) capital, planning, design, permitting, financing, construction, and land acquisition costs incurred by the District prior to this Act's enactment to be part of the nonfederal share. And (2) in-kind services performed by the District to be part of the local share. Requires the District to receive credit toward the nonfederal share for reasonable costs incurred from participation in the planning, design, permitting, financing, and construction of the Project and for the fair market value of lands used or acquired for the Project. Prohibits the Secretary from providing funds for operation or maintenance. Makes Project operation, ownership, and maintenance the sole responsibility of the District. Directs the Secretary, before obligating funds, to work cooperatively with the District to use plans, designs, and engineering and environmental analyses that have already been prepared by the District. Terminates the Secretary's authority to carry out this Act 10 years after its enactment.
Child Abuse and Neglect Enforcement Act - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to provide for a ten percent reduction of drug control and system improvement (Byrne) grants to States that do not have in effect throughout the State a law requiring that a designated law enforcement agency make available to child protective and child welfare workers timely criminal conviction information and protection orders based on a claim of domestic or child abuse to the same extent as such information is made available to law enforcement officers in such State. Sets forth provisions regarding redistribution of funds. Directs the Attorney General to issue regulations to ensure compliance. Amends title XIX of the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services, for FY 1999 and subsequent fiscal years, to make a grant to a State for prevention and treatment of substance abuse only if such State requires by law or regulation that: (1) each newborn infant born in the State be tested for physical dependence on any drug, fetal alcohol syndrome, fetal alcohol effects, the presence of alcohol, and the presence of drugs that are associated with substance abuse. And (2) if the newborn tests positive under any such test, the principal State or local agency with responsibility for the protection of children be notified. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) delayed applicability for certain States. And (2) reduction of a State's allotment for noncompliance. Amends: (1) the Safe Streets Act to authorize the use of Byrne grants to enforce child abuse and neglect laws and programs. And (2) the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to increase the set aside for child abuse victims. Directs the Comptroller General of the United States to study and report to the Congress and the Secretary on reporting requirements under Federal laws relating to child abuse and neglect and under provisions of the Social Security Act relating to foster care and adoption assistance. Requires the Secretary to conduct an analysis of such report, including any appropriate recommendations for reducing the number of reporting requirements, and submit such analysis to the Congress within 90 days. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) child advocacy centers play a vital role in interviewing, treating, and assisting victims of child abuse. (2) such centers are often responsible for intervening in a number of potentially dangerous domestic violence situations and thus preventing such violence or other incidents. And (3) it is appropriate to increase funding for such centers under the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990.
Frank Buckles World War I Memorial Act - Authorizes the World War I Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work rededicating the District of Columbia War Memorial as a National and District of Columbia World War I Memorial.
Directs the US Customs Service to liquidate or reliquidate specified entries of 13-inch televisions and pay amounts owed.
Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act of 2017 This bill amends the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to allow the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) to subject a bank holding company to enhanced supervision if: (1) the company has been identified as a global systemically important company. Or (2) the risk of the company's financial distress, or the nature of the company's activities, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. Currently, companies are subject to this type of oversight if they possess at least $50 billion in assets or are a nonbank financial company under the FRB's supervision. The Financial Stability Oversight Council must approve of any metrics used by the FRB in determining by regulation that a category of bank holding companies is subject to enhanced supervision. Under this bill, companies subject to enhanced supervision may be required to limit mergers and acquisitions, restrict products offered, or maintain a certain debt ratio. The FRB must publish the list of companies that have been identified as requiring enhanced supervision.
Hazardous Materials Cooperative Research Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to establish: (1) a hazardous materials cooperative research program. And (2) an independent governing board to select cooperative research projects and studies of hazardous materials transportation to be carried out under the program that will yield results immediately applicable to risk analysis and mitigation or that will strengthen the ability of first responders to respond to accidents involving the transportation of hazardous materials.
Native American Housing Enhancement Act of 2005 - Amends the Native American Housing Assistance Act of 1996 to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from restricting access to a Native American affordable housing grant based solely on one of four specified factors. Amends title V of the Housing Act of 1949 to state that federally recognized Indian tribes who exercise powers of self-government shall comply with the Indian Civil Rights Act when receiving assistance under title V. States that title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 shall not apply to tribes: (1) covered by Federal law commonly known as the Indian Civil Rights Act. Or (2) tribes acting under affordable housing provisions of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996. Amends the Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act to make Indian tribes, tribally designated housing entities, or other agencies primarily serving Indians eligible for Youthbuild grants.
Scaling Up Manufacturing Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain corporations or partnerships that are headquartered in the United States a tax credit for up to 25 of their costs for the construction of a manufacturing facility and for the purchase of specialized equipment for use at such facility.
Congressional Budget Office Improvement Act of 1998 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to establish a Congressional Budget Office Board to: (1) provide general oversight of Congressional Budget Office (CBO) operations. (2) approve in advance the undertaking of Office studies and publication of reports that the CBO Director may propose. And (3) provide general guidance to the Director in the formulation and implementation of CBO procedures and policies. Directs CBO to establish an Economic Advisory Council to: (1) review and make recommendations to the Board on CBO activities. (2) evaluate the quality and objectivity of CBO research and reports. And (3) undertake additional related tasks as the Board may direct. Requires any CBO report to the Congress or the public that contains an estimate of the effect that legislation will have on revenues or expenditures to be accompanied by a written statement disclosing the economic, technical, and behavioral assumptions that were made in producing the estimate.
District of Columbia College Access Improvement Act of 2001 - Revises eligibility requirements for tuition assistance under the District of Columbia College Access Act of 1999 to allow the following to be eligible for such assistance: (1) applicants who graduated from a secondary school or received the recognized equivalent of a secondary school diploma before January 1, 1998, and are currently enrolled at an eligible institution as of the enactment of this Act, and were domiciled in the District of Columbia for not less than 12 consecutive months preceding the commencement of the freshman year at an institution of higher education. (2) applicants re-enrolling after more than a three-year break in their post-secondary education who have been domiciled in the District for at least five consecutive years at the application date. (3) applicants who did not graduate from a secondary school or receive a recognized equivalent of a secondary school diploma, but are accepted for enrollment as a freshman at an eligible institution on or after January 1, 2002. And (4) applicants who graduated from a secondary school or received the recognized equivalent of such school diploma before January 1, 1998 and are currently enrolled at an eligible institution as of the enactment of this Act. Requires all eligible students to meet the citizenship and immigration status requirements described in the Higher Education Act of 1965. Amends the Act: (1) to allow individuals who attend private historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) nationwide to participate in such Tuition Assistance Program. And (2) to prohibit the Mayor from using more than seven percent of the total amount of Federal funds appropriated for such Program, retroactive to the Act's enactment, for the Program's administrative expenses. Expresses the sense of Congress that the District of Columbia may appropriate such local funds as necessary for the Program. Requires the District government to establish a dedicated account for the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and any interest earned in this or any fiscal years. Authorizes the use of such funds to help pay the cost of tuition and fees for eligible students to attend eligible institutions if the fiscal year appropriation for that year is insufficient to cover the cost of tuition and fees for that year.
King Cove Road Land Exchange Act This bill declares that, if the state of Alaska offers to convey to the Department of the Interior 43,093 acres of state-owned land, Interior shall convey to Alaska, in exchange, 206 acres of federal land within the Izembek National Wildlife Refuge and 131 acres of federal land within the Izembek Wilderness, for purposes of: (1) designating a road corridor through the refuge, and (2) constructing a single-lane gravel road along the road corridor. The values of the federal and nonfederal lands to be exchanged shall be equal. Interior and Alaska shall select an appraiser to conduct appraisals of the federal and nonfederal lands in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal standards. The bill requires the route of the road corridor to follow a specified southern road alignment. The bill states that the exchange of the federal and nonfederal lands and the road to be constructed under this bill shall not constitute a major federal action requiring environmental impact review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.
Homeowners' Emergency Mortgage Assistance Act - Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to establish a mortgage emergency assistance program for a mortgage for a one- to four-family residence whose mortgagor is temporarily unable to meet payment obligations due to financial hardship beyond the mortgagor's control. Prohibits an mortgagee from accelerating the maturity of or commencing any legal action regarding a mortgage or taking possession of any mortgagor security: (1) unless the mortgagee meets certain notice and other specified conditions. Or (2) if the mortgagor has applied for or is receiving assistance under this Act. Requires mortgagor repayment of such assistance, plus interest.
Natural Disaster Mitigation Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual taxpayers a nonrefundable tax credit for 25 of their qualified natural disaster mitigation property expenditures, as defined by this Act, made in connection with the taxpayer's principal residence.
Northern Yukon-Arctic International Wildlife Refuge Act - Establishes the Northern Yukon-Arctic International Wildlife Refuge. Declares that the United States portion of the Refuge shall be administered under the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966. Authorizes appropriations.
Taxpayer Savings and Employee Notification Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to include in gross income from nonqualified company-owned life insurance contracts income and death benefits . States that violations of such provisions shall be treated as a violation of an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act.
National Trails System Willing Seller Act - Amends the National Trails System Act to: (1) prohibit the federal acquisition of lands outside the exterior boundaries of any federally administered area, except with the owner's consent, for the Oregon, Mormon Pioneer, Lewis and Clark, Iditarod, and Nez Perce National Historic Trails and the Continental Divide, North Country, Ice Age, and Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trails. And (2) provide that federal authority to acquire fee title shall be limited to an average of not more than one-quarter mile on either side of such national historic trails and the Continental Divide National Scenic Trail.
Removes certain federal land within Olympic National Park, Washington, that is designated as part of the Olympic Wilderness from inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Takes specified federal land within the Park into trust for the Quileute Indian Tribe. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to take specified nonfederal land owned by the Tribe into trust for the Tribe, upon completion and acceptance of an environmental hazard assessment. Includes those lands taken into trust for the Tribe in the Quileute Indian Reservation. Subjects portions of the federal land conveyed to the Tribe to easements and conditions that preserve the natural condition of the land and provide the public with recreational access to the land and Park. Exempts land conveyed to the Tribe along the southern boundary of the Reservation from any easements or conditions. Allows that land to be altered to allow for the relocation of Tribe members and structures outside the tsunami and Quillayute River flood zones. Extinguishes the Tribe's claims against the United States relating to the Park's past or present ownership, entry, use, surveys, or other activities upon the taking of the lands into trust for the Tribe and a formal Tribal Council resolution. Prohibits gaming on lands taken into trust for the Tribe pursuant to this Act.
Classroom Safety Act of 1993 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to assist local educational agencies (LEAs) in reducing and preventing violent crime in elementary and secondary schools. Directs the Secretary to develop a model for classroom safety written in English and Spanish and make it available to any LEA upon request. Requires the grants to be used for programs of: (1) anticrime and safety measures, and prevention education and training, (2) counseling for victims and witnesses, (3) conflict resolution and peer mediation, (4) purchasing crime prevention equipment. And (5) preventing and reducing student participation in organized crime and drug and gang-related activities in schools. Requires grant applications to include comprehensive plans. Bases selection of recipients upon crime problem, need and ability, and student population . Requires annual reports. Authorizes appropriations.
Deafy Glade Land Exchange Act - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to convey to Solano County, California, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of land in the Mendocino National Forest comprising approximately 82 acres and known as the Fouts Springs Ranch, as depicted on the map entitled Fouts Springs-Deafy Glade Federal and Non-Federal Lands and dated July 17, 2008, if the county conveys to the Secretary all right, title, and interest of the county in and to four parcels of land consisting of approximately 160 acres identified on such map. Authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to sell or exchange to the city of Norfolk, Virginia, certain real property under the administrative jurisdiction of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), including land and improvements, located in Norfolk if the Secretary: (1) determines that such conveyance is in the best interests of NOAA and the federal government. And (2) has provided prior notification to the appropriate congressional committees. Requires the proceeds of any conveyance under this Act to be made available for: (1) activities related to the operations of, or capital improvements to, NOAA property. Or (2) relocation and other costs associated with the sale or exchange.
National Children's Island Act of 1995 - Requires the Secretary of the Interior: (1) in order to facilitate construction, development, and operation of National Children's Island, to transfer to the District of Columbia Heritage Island and all of that portion of the Kingman Island located south of Benning Road and within the District and the Anacostia River. And (2) to grant to the District permanent easements to such property for use by the District for roads and bridges , utility transmission corridors, and an informational kiosk, a ticketing booth, and security for the Islands. Allows the District to assign the easements to any operator of the Islands. Requires unbudgeted actual costs incurred by the Secretary for the transfer to be borne by the District. Authorizes the District to seek reimbursement from any third party for such costs. Requires the development of National Children's Island to proceed as authorized. Subjects the transfer and easements to the condition that the Islands be used only for the purposes of the National Children's Island and provides for reversion to the United States if improvements and operations are not commenced within specified periods, if the recreation area is abandoned or not used for a specified period, or if the Islands are converted to another use. Requires the District to direct any nongovernmental entity authorized to construct, develop, and operate National Children's Island to establish an escrow fund, post a surety bond, provide a letter of credit, or otherwise provide such security for the benefit of the Service to serve as the sole source of funding for restoration of the park to a condition suitable for Service purposes upon reversion of the property. Requires any amount in the escrow fund to be distributed to such entity if, after two years from the date of reversion of the property, the Service has not commenced, or is not diligently proceeding with, such restoration. Provides that operation of the park may only commence simultaneously with or subsequent to improvement and opening of a children's playground at the National Children's Island that is available to the public free of charge. Prohibits public parking on the Islands except for handicapped parking, emergency and governmental vehicles, and parking related to constructing and servicing the National Children's Island. Subjects the final design plans for the park and playground to the review and approval of the National Capital Planning Commission and the District. Provides that: (1) the transfer of jurisdiction concerning the Islands from the National Park Service to the District as approved by the Council of the District shall become null and void and of no further force and effect. (2) the Islands shall no longer be considered to be part of Anacostia Park or to be within the District's park system. And (3) the District shall have exclusive charge and control over the Islands and easements. Authorizes the District to grant to a nongovernmental individual or entity a right to use the lands currently being leased by the United States to the District pursuant to the District of Columbia Stadium Act of 1957 for parking facilities as the Mayor of the District may determine necessary or appropriate in connection with or in support of National Children's Island.
Accelerating Biomedical Research Act - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to require certain adjustments to discretionary spending limits in FY2015-FY2021 to accommodate increases in appropriations to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Furthering Accountability and Individual Rights within the Military Act of 2014 or the Fair Military Act - Directs each Secretary of a military department to ensure that: (1) the written performance appraisals of each member of the Armed Forces include an assessment of the extent to which the member supports that Armed Force's sexual assault prevention and response program, and (2) the performance appraisals of each commanding officer indicate the extent to which such officer has established a command climate in which allegations of sexual assault are properly managed and fairly evaluated and in which a victim can report criminal activity without fear of retaliation. Requires modification of the Military Rules of Evidence to clarify that the general military character of an accused is not admissible for the purpose of showing the probability of his or her innocence, except that an accused may offer evidence of a trait of his or her military character when that trait is relevant to an element of the offense for which he or she has been charged. Directs the Secretaries of the military departments and any department in which the Coast Guard is operating to ensure that the provisions of Title XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY2014 and this Act apply to the United States Military Academy, the Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, and the Coast Guard Academy. Requires the independent judicial proceedings panel to conduct assessments of: (1) the use of mental health records by the defense during preliminary hearing and court-martial proceedings, and (2) the use of such records in similar civilian proceedings to determine whether any significant discrepancies exist between the two legal systems. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to submit to the Senate and House Armed Services Committees a report describing the status of the implementation of the sexual assault provisions contained in the NDAAs for FY2012, FY2013, and FY2014 and the sexual assault prevention initiatives announced in memoranda by the Secretary of Defense (DOD) on May 6, 2013, and August 14, 2013.
Guidance, Understanding, and Information for Dual Eligibles (GUIDE) Act - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a three-year demonstration program under which the Secretary awards grants and contracts to appropriate, qualified community programs and clinics for individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities, or certain programs under the Public Health Services Act, to employ qualified social workers and case managers to provide one-on-one counseling about benefits under part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to a full-benefit dual eligible individual who has one or more mental disabilities.
Wounded Warrior Transition Assistance Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of each military department to provide each reserve member of that department who is being evaluated for separation or retirement for disability, or for placement on the temporary disability retired list or inactive status list, the option to remain on active duty during such evaluation in order to continue to receive military pay and allowances, until the member is: (1) cleared to return to duty. Or (2) separated, retired, or placed on the temporary disability retired or inactive status list. Requires each Secretary to retain on active duty a reserve member who incurs an injury or illness while on active duty, is being discharged or separated from the Armed Forces, or is being released from active duty, and is not being evaluated in connection with such discharge, separation, or release, until the member is: (1) retired or placed on the temporary disability retired or inactive status list. Or (2) determined ineligible for such care or benefits based solely upon the injury or illness. Requires military human resources commands to return to active duty during their evaluation period reserve members who request such option. Encourages the use of local residences by reserve members during such transition periods. Authorizes the use of Defense Health Program funds for reserve members who become ill or injured while on active duty and separate as a result of such illness or injury. Provides for the assignment of Judge Advocate General personnel to assist members of the Armed Forces (members) in connection with the medical discharge process and disability evaluations. Expresses support for access of veterans service organizations to military facilities to provide counseling and services to members.
Cape Fox Land Entitlement Adjustment Act - Provides that Cape Fox Corporation shall not be required under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) to select or receive conveyance of 160 nonproductive acres. Permits Cape Fox to select and the Secretary of the Interior to convey 99 acres of the surface estate of Tongass National Forest lands outside Cape Fox's current exterior selection boundary. Directs the Secretary to convey the subsurface estate to those lands to Sealaska Corporation. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to offer and, if accepted by Cape Fox, to exchange specified Tongass National Forest lands for lands and interests identified by Cape Fox from specified lands previously conveyed to it. States that the Cape Fox land conveyed to the Federal Government shall include a public trail easement unless the Secretary of Agriculture agrees otherwise. Requires the Secretary of the Interior, upon conveyance by Cape Fox of such lands and conveyance and relinquishment by Sealaska of the subsurface estate underlying those lands and other specified Tongass National Forest lands, to convey to Sealaska Tongass National Forest lands selected by Sealaska from a specified area. Requires: (1) such exchange to be considered a modification of the Sealaska CorporationUnited States Forest Service Split Estate Exchange Agreement. And (2) conveyances under this Act by the Federal Government to be considered to be conveyances pursuant to ANCSA. Subjects Federal lands conveyed to Cape Fox and Sealaska under this Act to reservations of public easements only as mutually agreed to in the relevant exchange agreements, with such easements to be for access across the lands conveyed for use of national forests or other public land.
Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer taxes for estates of decedents dying or for transfers made on or after the enactment date of this Act. In the case of assets placed in a qualified domestic trust by a decedent who dies prior to the enactment of this Act, the current estate tax will not apply to: (1) distributions from such trust before the death of a surviving spouse made more than 10 years after the enactment date of this Act, and (2) assets remaining in such trust upon the death of the surviving spouse. This section revises gift tax rates to lower the top rate to 35 and deems a transfer in trust to be a taxable gift unless the trust is treated as wholly-owned by the donor or the donor's spouse. The lifetime exemption for gifts is set at $5 million with a cost-of-living adjustment for calendar years beginning after 2011. The adjusted exemption amount in 2015 is $5.43 million. The budgetary effects of this Act are exempted from entry on either PAYGO scorecard maintained under the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
Impaired Waters Improvement Act - Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to make grants to reduce the discharges of nitrogen, phosphorus, or sediment (pollutants) in an area that is subject to a total maximum daily load (TMDL) for those pollutants under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act . Makes eligible for grants the owners and operators of: (1) publicly owned treatment works or storm water management practices serving areas subject to the TMDLs, or (2) privately owned farms implementing methods to reduce discharges of those pollutants in those areas. Directs the Administrator to increase by 5 the civil penalty for violations of the Clean Water Act. Establishes the Impaired Waters Improvement Fund for making expenditures to carry out the grant program. Transfers for each of FY2015-FY2019 the amount attributable to the penalty increase or $100 million, whichever is less, to the Fund.
College Construction Loan Insurance Association Privatization Act of 1995 - Provides for the privatization and renaming of the College Construction Loan Insurance Association, and the cessation of Federal sponsorship. Repeals provisions for such Association under the Higher Education Act of 1965.
Sport Fish Restoration and Recreational Boating Safety Act of 2011 - Amends the Federal Aid in Fish Restoration Act to maintain through FY2017 the existing percentages of annual Sport Fish Restoration and Boating Trust Fund appropriations distributed to: (1) the Secretary of the Interior for coastal wetlands distributions, the Clean Vessel Act, boating infrastructure, and national outreach and communications. And (2) the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating for state recreational boating safety programs. Sets forth, through FY2017, separate set-aside amounts for: (1) the Secretary of the Interior for administration expenses of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act. And (2) the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating for national recreational boating safety personnel and activities, the National Boating Safety Advisory Council, and national nonprofit boating safety public service organizations. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend Fund transfer restriction exceptions until March 5, 2017. Revises the formulas for apportioning unobligated amounts among states and paying the costs of administering recreational boating safety programs.
Verifying Official Totals for Elections Act - Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to prohibit a voting system used in a federal election from containing or using any election-dedicated voting system technology which is not deposited by the state with the National Software Reference Library of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) before the election. Requires the Director of NIST to: (1) hold the technology in escrow. And (2) disclose it and information about it to a qualified person who has entered into a nondisclosure agreement with respect to it, or to whom the Director is permitted or required to disclose the technology under state law.
Meat Promotion Act of 2005 - Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to replace current mandatory country of origin labeling requirements with a voluntary country of origin labeling program for meat and meat products. Sets forth: (1) limitations on use of United States country of origin labels, and (2) civil penalties for program violations.
Medicaid and Chip Quality Improvement Act of 2016 This bill amends titles XI and XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to expand reporting requirementsnbsp, with respect to the quality of care providednbsp. Under Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Current law requires a state that contracts with a Medicaid managed organizationnbsp. To develop and implement a quality assessment and improvement strategy. The bill extends this requirement to state contracts with providers ofnbsp, comparable primary care case management servicesnbsp, and othernbsp. Health care services under Medicaid. With respect to adults eligible for Medicaid and children enrolled in Medicaid ornbsp. CHIP, a state must report annually on quality measures identified by the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS). Such reporting shall be stratified by service delivery system. CMS shall establish a Medicaid Quality Performance Bonus fund to award states for high attainment and improvement onnbsp. A core set of quality measures. A state must designate at least 75 of any bonus funds for the development and operation of quality-related initiatives that will directly benefit providers or managed care entities participating in, or under a waiver of, the state plan for medical assistance. A state may usenbsp, the remainder of suchnbsp. Funds for activities related to the goals and purposes of the state plan.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Overseas Private Investment Corporation Title II: Trade and Development Agency Title III: Export Promotion Programs Within the International Trade Administration Title IV: Promotion of United States Environmental Exports Title V: International Protection of Intellectual Property Jobs Through Trade Expansion Act of 1994 - Title I: Overseas Private Investment Corporation - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to raise the ceiling on the maximum contingent liability allowed for Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) insurance and outstanding financing. Authorizes OPIC to transfer amounts from noncredit activities to pay subsidy costs of program levels for the direct loan and investment guaranties programs. Continues OPIC's authority to issue investment insurance and guarantees through FY 1996. Makes a restriction on OPIC assistance for countries that exceed a specified per capita income level inapplicable to Ireland and Northern Ireland . Title II: Trade and Development Agency - Authorizes appropriations for the Trade and Development Agency for FY 1995 and 1996. Title III: Export Promotion Programs Within the International Trade Administration - Amends the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985 to authorize appropriations for Department of Commerce export promotion programs for FY 1995 and 1996. Title IV: Promotion of United States Environmental Exports - Environmental Export Promotion Act of 1994 - Amends the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to remove provisions relating to Environmental Export Assistance Officers. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish the Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee to provide guidance on programs to expand US exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services and products that comply with US environmental, safety, and related requirements. Requires the Environmental Trade Promotion Working Group, a subcommittee of the Trade Promotion Coordination Committee (TPCC), to: (1) select five priority countries with the greatest potential for the application of US Government export promotion resources related to environmental exports. And (2) create a plan annually for each such country that sets forth ways to increase such exports to such country. Directs the Secretary to assign a specialist in environmental technologies to the office of the US and Foreign Commercial Service in each of the priority countries. Authorizes the TPCC to establish international regional initiatives to coordinate the activities of Federal agencies in order to build environmental partnerships between the United States and the geographic regions outside the United States for which such initiatives are established. Provides that such partnerships shall enhance environmental protection and promote sustainable development by using the technical expertise and financial resources of Federal agencies that provide foreign assistance and by expanding US exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services to such regions. Directs the Working Group to maintain a calendar of significant opportunities for US environmental businesses in foreign markets and trade promotion events to be made available to the public. Authorizes the Secretary to use the Market Development Cooperator Program to support regional alliances of private sector entities, nonprofit organizations, and universities that support the export of environmental technologies, goods, and services and promote the export of products complying with US environmental, safety, and related requirements. Title V: International Protection of Intellectual Property - Requires the President, acting through the Administrator of the Agency for International Development, to establish a program of training and technical assistance to assist foreign countries in: (1) developing and strengthening laws and regulations to protect intellectual property. And (2) developing the infrastructure necessary to implement and enforce such laws and regulations.
Supply Our Soldiers Act of 2005 - Directs the United States Postal Service (USPS) and the Secretary of Defense to provide a program under which postal benefits are made available for personal correspondence and other mail matter sent from within the United States by designated representatives (next-of-kin) to members of the Armed Forces who are: (1) serving on active duty abroad in support of military operations or against an enemy of the United States or other hostile force. Or (2) hospitalized in a US military facility as a result of disease or injury incurred during service overseas. Limits postal benefits to $150 per calendar quarter, and limits the size and weight of allowable parcels. Allows charitable organizations to apply for such benefits.
Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to define a major disaster for wildfire on federal lands as any wildfire that, in the determination of the President, warrants assistance under this Act to supplement the efforts and resources of the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture: (1) on federal lands, or (2) on non-federal lands pursuant to a fire protection agreement or cooperative agreement. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture to submit a request to the President for a declaration that such a major disaster exists. Requires such a request to: certify that the amount appropriated in the current fiscal year for wildfire suppression operations of the federal land management agencies under the jurisdiction of the respective Secretary, net of any concurrently enacted rescissions of wildfire suppression funds, increases the total unobligated balance of amounts available for wildfire suppression by an amount equal to or greater than the average total costs incurred by such agencies per year for wildfire suppression operations over the previous 10 fiscal years. Certify that the amount available for wildfire suppression operations of the federal land management agencies under the jurisdiction of the respective Secretary will be obligated not later than 30 days after such Secretary notifies the President that wildfire suppression funds will be exhausted to fund ongoing and anticipated wildfire suppression operations related to the wildfire on which such request is based. And specify the amount required in the current fiscal year to fund wildfire suppression operations related to the wildfire on which such request is based. Authorizes the President to: (1) declare that such a major disaster exists based on such a request, (2) establish a specific account for assistance pursuant to such a declaration, and (3) transfer funds from such account to the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct wildfire suppression operations on such lands. Requires the respective Secretary to secure reimbursement of transferred amounts used for wildfire suppression operations on non-federal land.
Advancing Truth and Accountability in Campaign Communications Act of 2001 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to require the filing of a report with the Commissioner of the Federal Election Commission within 24 hours of each date during a calendar year on which disbursements for electioneering communications exceed an aggregate of $10,000. Defines electioneering communications as certain communications broadcast from either a television or radio station that refer to a clearly identified candidate for Federal office. Provides that if any person makes, or contracts to make, any payment for any electioneering communication, and such payment is coordinated with a candidate for Federal office or an authorized committee of such candidate, a Federal, State, or local political party or committee thereof, or an agent or official of any such candidate, party, or committee, then such payment or contracting shall be treated as a contribution to and an expenditure by such candidate. Prohibits, in general, corporate and labor disbursements for applicable electioneering communications.
Hire, Train, Retain Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow non-governmental employers an exemption from, or reduction in, employment taxes during the period beginning on the enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2015, for hiring certain unemployed individuals who are trained by such employers in a qualified job training program , and (2) allow an employer an increase in the business-related tax credit for each worker retained by such employer who was employed on any date during the taxable year for a period of not less than 52 consecutive weeks.
Mayflower Commemorative Coin Act This bill directs the Department of the Treasury to issue up to 50,000 $5 gold commemorative coins, and up to 100,000 $1 silver commemorative coins, whose design is emblematic of the arrival of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, Massachusetts. These coins shall be issued only during the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2020. The Department must pay all surcharges received from sales of the coins to the General Society of Mayflower Descendants for educational purposes.
Higher Education Investment Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an individual a credit of 20 percent of the interest paid on any qualified education loan. Limits the maximum credit allowable to $500 for an individual and $1,000 for two or more individuals. Imposes a limit on the amount of credit based on modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer over $40,000 . Limits the period the credit is allowed to a taxpayer or spouse to the first 60 months in which interest payments are required. Provides that any loan and all refinancings of any loan shall be treated as one loan. Allows a credit, if the education loan was used to pay the education expenses of an individual other than the taxpayer or the taxpayer's spouse, for certain dependents. Defines qualified education loan and qualified higher education expenses. Allows a credit to a married couple only if such couple files a joint return. Requires that an individual engaged in a trade or business who receives from any individual interest aggregating $600 or more on any qualified education loan, make a return with respect to each individual from whom such interest was received. Directs that in the case of returns which would be required to be made by two or more persons, only the person first receiving such interest shall be required to make the return.
National September 11 Memorial Museum Commemorative Medal Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to strike and make available for sale not more than 2 million silver national medals, containing one ounce of silver each, in commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States and the establishment of the National September 11 Memorial Museum at the World Trade Center. Declares that all sales of medals under this Act shall include a surcharge of $10 per medal, which shall be paid to the National September 11 Memorial Museum at the World Trade Center to support its operations and maintenance. Provides for compliance of the budgetary effects of this Act with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
Opportunities for Success Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of Education to award grants to institutions of higher education for use in providing their students with financial support to engage in internships reasonably associated with their studies. Requires support recipients to be full-time or half-time students who are eligible for Federal Pell Grants. Sets the student support level for unpaid internships at: (1) the higher of the federal or state minimum wage for each hour of the internship, if the internship occurs while the student is enrolled in classes. And (2) the student's reasonable cost of living expenses, if the internship occurs while the student is not enrolled in classes. Sets the support level for paid internships by reducing the amount the student would receive for an unpaid internship by the amount the paid internship provides to the student. Caps the total support a student may receive for full-time and part-time internships. Makes that support nontaxable and excludes it from the calculation of a student's need or eligibility for financial assistance under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
Alcohol Advertising Accountability Act of 1996 - Mandates: (1) an annual report to the Congress on alcohol advertising, its profile, and its effects, along with recommendations for legislation. And (2) establishment of a panel to assist in gathering information for the report.
Medicare Drug Savings Act of 2017 This bill requires drug manufacturers to issue rebates to the Centers for Medicare amp, Medicaid Servicesnbsp. (CMS) for prescription drugs dispensed to eligible low-income individuals under the Medicare prescription drug benefit or a Medicare Advantage (MA) prescription drug plan (PDP). Subject to civil monetary penalties, a Medicare or MA PDP sponsor must report,nbsp, both to drug manufacturers andnbsp. To the CMS, specified information related to the determination and payment of such rebates.
Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2006, or the Credit CARD Act of 2006 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to require advance notice of any increase in the annual percentage rate (APR) of interest pertaining a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan. Imposes a freeze on interest rate terms and fees on canceled cards. Prohibits: (1) penalties for on-time payments. And (2) over-the-limit fees for creditor-approved transactions. Requires disclosure of: (1) the repayment information applicable to the outstanding balance. And (2) late payment deadlines, postmark dates, and any increase in interest rates for late payments. Increases the civil penalty against any creditor who fails to comply with specified requirements in the case of an individual action relating to an open end credit plan that is not secured by real property or a dwelling. Prohibits issuance of: (1) a credit card under an open end credit plan on behalf of a consumer who has not attained the age of 21, unless the consumer has submitted a written application meeting specified requirements. Or (2) certain affinity cards to students unless certain requirements have been met.
Medicare Patient Safeguards Act of 2009 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) efforts to make the Medicare program financially sustainable, including application of comparative effectiveness research, should not deprive patients of medically necessary care solely due to its cost or limit access to needed health care services due to a patient's age, gender, ethnicity, or disability status. And (2) Congress should protect patients' access to needed care by ensuring that the Administrator of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) relies on adequate clinical expertise when the Administrator proposes to narrow coverage for a product or service under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. Establishes a process for the issuing of Medicare national coverage determinations by the Administrator. Enumerates prohibitions and conditions.
Gun Victim Compensation Act - Amends the Federal criminal code to make any person who sells, delivers, or otherwise transfers a firearm to a juvenile, felon, or other disqualified individual, or a handgun to a person who the transferor knows or has reasonable cause to believe is a juvenile liable for damages caused by a discharge of the transferred firearm by the transferee. Makes exceptions, including for certain temporary transfers to a juvenile who uses a handgun in the course of employment relating to ranching or farming with the prior written consent of a parent or guardian and for the issuance of a handgun to a juvenile who is a member of the armed forces or National Guard. Authorizes an action for damages to be brought in a US district court by, or on behalf of, any person who suffers damages resulting from bodily injury or death caused by a discharge of the transferred firearm by the transferee. Specifies that there shall be no liability under this Act if it is established by a preponderance of the evidence that: (1) the damages were suffered by an individual who was engaged in a criminal act against the person or property of another at the time of the injury. Or (2) the injury was self-inflicted unless the plaintiff establishes that, at the time of the transfer, the transferor knew or had reasonable cause to believe that the transferee had not attained age 18 or had been adjudicated as a mental defective or committed to a mental institution. Limits actions to those brought within five years after the date of the transfer of the firearm. Requires that a prevailing plaintiff be awarded attorney's fees. Permits the award of punitive damages.
Establishes a National Advisory Committee to review the program's progress, advise on any improvements, and report to Congress on actions taken to reduce the impacts of windstorm hazards.
National Fish and Wildlife Policy Fellowship Program Act of 2004 - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to award fellowships to qualified graduate and post-graduate level students engaged in advanced degree programs concerning freshwater and anadromous fish, wildlife, conservation management, or biology in order to: (1) provide such students with opportunities to participate in the policy process within executive and legislative branches of the Federal Government. And (2) provide Federal agencies and Congress with specific expertise to aid in the effective management of the nation's natural living resources. Requires the Secretary to strive to ensure equal access to the fellowship program for minority and disadvantaged students and to report to Congress on such efforts. States that the Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service shall administer fellowships awarded under this Act.
Victims of Abuse Access to Health Insurance Act - Prohibits health insurers from discriminating against an individual or group because the individual is or may be a victim of domestic violence. Prohibits considering a condition or injury resulting from domestic violence as a pre-existing condition. Mandates civil and criminal penalties and provides for injunctive relief and compensatory and punitive damages. Declares that, for the purposes of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, this Act specifically relates to the business of insurance.
Transit Accessibility Innovation Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to implement a transit accessibility innovation program by distributing competitive discretionary grants to public transit agencies for eligible projects in order to encourage public transit systems to take action to address deficiencies in service for individuals with disabilities. Directs the Secretary, for each fiscal year, to use 2 of funds made available under this Act to carry out activities to ensure that innovative practices, program models, and new service delivery options are collected, reviewed, and disseminated to other public transit agencies for replication in other communities. Directs the Secretary, for each fiscal year, also to use certain funds to carry out a transportation promotion pilot program to ensure that: (1) public transit agencies fulfill their requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), and (2) individuals with disabilities have advocates to ensure greater opportunities for integration and access into transit systems. Requires the Secretary to make grants to: (1) agencies implementing a system established under the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 that have demonstrated histories of transportation expertise or advocacy, and (2) nonprofit organizations that have also demonstrated such histories. Increases from 10 to 15 the limitation on the use of a recipient's annual formula apportionment for provision of nonfixed route paratransit transportation services in accordance with the ADA.
SSI Outreach Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish within the Social Security Administration an Office of Outreach Coordination to: (1) administer a program under which the Secretary provides grants and technical assistance to local governments and nonprofit organizations for outreach activities and services targeted at obtaining various assistance for homeless individuals and other hard to reach populations. (2) formulate and provide information and technical assistance to Social Security Administration field offices regarding outreach policies and methods and local outreach activities and services. And (3) implement the requirements of title XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act relating to the outreach program for children. Sets forth special rules governing the provision of social security benefits to homeless individuals.
Agricultural Credit Act of 2001 - Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to exclude from debt forgiveness: (1) loan rescheduling, consolidation, deferral, or reamortization. (2) a write-down due to natural disaster or family medical condition. Or (3) a write-down as part of the resolution of a discrimination complaint against the Secretary of Agriculture. Increases the number of occasions of permitted loan or loan guarantee debt forgiveness per borrower from one to two. Includes as an exception to such limitation an operating loan or loan guarantee to an individual whose payments are current under a specified reorganization plan. Permits excess funds obligated for socially disadvantaged farmers to be reallocated for such use in another State . Permits direct operating loans and loan guarantees to be made to persons in areas: (1) affected by a natural disaster or designated emergency. Or (2) determined to be suffering from an economic emergency. Revises recapture percentage provisions.
Security Clearance Family Review Act This bill prohibits specified federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, from granting access to classified information to a relative of the President for purposes of federal employment unless the Office of Government Ethics makes a favorable determination during a review process regarding the relative's suitability for such access. In conducting a review, the Office of Government Ethics must determine whether the relative of the President has any ongoing and substantial commercial relationships with state-owned or privately owned foreign enterprises or financial institutions, and, if so, whether the relative is ineligible for access to classified information because of such relationships.
National Purple Heart Hall of Honor Commemorative Coin Act Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins emblematic of the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor. Limits the minting of such coins to the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2017. Prescribes surcharges for coin sales, which shall be paid to the National Purple Heart Hall of Honor, Inc. to help finance the construction of a new building and renovation of existing National Purple Heart Hall of Honor facilities.
Health Insurance Rate Review Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to declare that federal provisions requiring the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to review unreasonable premium increases in health care coverage shall not be construed to prohibit a state from imposing additional rate requirements on health insurance issuers that are more protective of consumers. Expands such review to include all rate increases, not only premium increases. Directs the Secretary or the relevant state insurance commissioner to take corrective actions to ensure that any excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates are corrected prior to, or as soon as possible after, implementation, including through mechanisms such as denying rates, modifying rates, or requiring rebates to consumers. Requires the Secretary to determine whether the state insurance commissioner or regulator or the Secretary will undertake such corrective actions based on whether the state can adequately undertake such actions. Applies these provisions to grandfathered health plans under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
Domestic Violence Courts Assistance Act - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to allow such grants to be used to provide the resources to establish and maintain a court system dedicated to the adjudication of domestic violence cases. Requires a State to certify that at least five percent of grant funds shall be allocated for specialized domestic violence courts. Amends the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 to allow funds available pursuant to grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts awarded under the Act to be used to: (1) implement and evaluate court-based approaches to adjudicating domestic violence cases in State courts. And (2) provide technical assistance to State courts to facilitate the development and adoption of improved practices in such adjudication.
Agricultural Producers Value-Added Investment Tax Credit Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individuals who materially participate in a farming business and certain farmer-owned entities a business tax credit up to $30,000 for investment in qualified value-added agricultural property. Defines qualified value-added agricultural property as depreciable property which is used to add value to a good or product, suitable for food or nonfood use, derived in whole or in part from organic matter which is available on a renewable basis, including agricultural crops and agricultural wastes and residues, wood wastes and residues, and domesticated animal wastes. Terminates the credit after 2010.
Census Address List Improvement Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to: (1) publish standards defining the content and structure of address information which States and local governments may submit to the Secretary to be used in developing a national address list. (2) develop and publish a timetable for the Bureau of the Census to receive, review, and respond to the submitted information before the decennial census date. (3) provide for a response by the Bureau that specifies its determinations regarding such information and the reasons for such determinations. And (4) be subject to the review process developed under this Act relating to such responses. Directs the Secretary to provide officials who are designated as census liaisons by local governments with access to census address information for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of the Bureau's address information for census and survey purposes and together with such access, provide an explanation of duties and obligations under this Act. Limits such access to the addresses within the local government represented by the census liaison or an adjacent local government. Requires the Bureau to respond to each recommendation made by a census liaison concerning the accuracy of address information, including the determination of the Bureau regarding each such recommendation. Prohibits a census liaison from using information made available under this Act for purposes other than the purposes specified in this Act. Makes provisions that require, with exceptions, that such information be treated as confidential applicable to local government census liaisons. Imposes a fine and up to five years' imprisonment on whoever being or having been a census liaison wrongfully discloses such information. Requires: (1) the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, acting through the Chief Statistician, to develop an appeals process for those States and local governments which desire to appeal determinations of the Bureau. And (2) the Postal Service to provide to the Secretary for use by the Bureau such address, address- related, and point of postal delivery information, including postal delivery codes, determined by the Secretary to be appropriate for any census or survey being conducted by the Bureau.
Arlington National Cemetery Burial Eligibility Act - Allows the remains of the following persons to be interred at Arlington National Cemetery: (1) any member of the armed forces who dies while on active duty, (2) any retired member of the armed forces. (3) any member or former member of a reserve component of the armed forces who served on active duty, who was honorably discharged from active duty, who was under 60 years of age, and who, but for such age, would have been eligible for retired pay. (4) any former member who was separated for physical disability before October 1, 1949, who served on active duty, and who would have been eligible for disability retirement if such provisions had been in effect on such date. (5) any former member whose last active military service was terminated honorably and who has been awarded one of a number of specified military decorations. (6) any former prisoner of war who dies on or after November 30, 1993. (7) any reserve member who dies while on active duty for training or inactive duty training, (8) the President or any former President. (9) the spouse, surviving spouse, minor child, and, in the discretion of the Cemetery's Superintendent, unmarried adult child of an interred member. (10) the spouse, minor child, and unmarried adult child (discretionary) of a member on active duty if such person dies while the member is on active duty. (11) the individual whose spouse, minor child, and unmarried adult child (discretionary) is eligible under (10), above, but only if buried in the same grave site. (12) the parents of a minor child or unmarried adult child whose remains, based on the parent's eligibility, are already buried in the Cemetery, but only if buried in the same grave site. (13) the surviving spouse, minor child, and unmarried adult child (discretionary) of a member who was lost, buried at sea, or officially determined to be permanently absent in a status of missing or missing in action. And (14) the surviving spouse, minor child, and unmarried adult child (discretionary) of a member buried in a cemetery under the jurisdiction of the American Battle Monuments Commission. Authorizes the President to deem an otherwise ineligible individual as eligible for such burial for extraordinary acts, services, or contributions to the armed forces. Prohibits the consideration of a request for burial under such extraordinary circumstances that is made before the death of the individual involved. Directs the Secretary of the Army to: (1) maintain a register of each individual buried in the Cemetery that describes the basis of burial eligibility for individuals buried on or after January 1, 2002. And (2) publish an updated pamphlet describing eligibility for Cemetery burial. Authorizes the cremated remains of the following individuals to be placed in the Cemetery columbarium: (1) any person described above who is eligible for Cemetery burial. (2) a veteran whose last period of active duty service ended honorably. And (3) the spouse, surviving spouse, minor child, and, at the Superintendent's discretion, the unmarried adult child of a veteran whose last period of active service ended honorably. Requires a Cemetery grave site to be appropriately marked. Requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations for the provision of Cemetery headstones or markers at private expense in lieu of Cemetery headstones and markers provided by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Allows for the placement of Cemetery monuments for particular military service or a military event, but requires a 25-year wait after such service or event before the placing of such monument. Amends the Veterans Education and Benefits Expansion Act of 2001 to make a provision authorizing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish a headstone or marker for the graves of eligible veterans buried in private cemeteries effective with respect to veterans dying on or after September 11, 2001 .
Appropriates funds for the Account. Prohibits such appropriation from being considered as direct spending for purposes of pay-as-you-go provisions of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 . Reduces the public debt limit by the amount appropriated into the Account. Bars Account receipts and disbursements from being counted as new budget authority, outlays, receipts, or deficit or surplus for purposes of : (1) the Federal Government budget as submitted by the President, (2) the congressional budget. Or (3) the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees on the Account.
House Ethics Commission Establishment Act of 2007 - Establishes an independent House Ethics Commission within the legislative branch. Amends Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives to revise the duties of the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to conform with this Act.
Reducing Over-Classification Act of 2008 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop and administer policies, procedures, and programs (policies) within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to prevent the over-classification of homeland security, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and other information within the scope of the information sharing environment established under the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 that must be disseminated to prevent and collectively respond to acts of terrorism. Requires the Secretary to coordinate with the Archivist of the United States and consult with representatives of state, local, tribal, and territorial government and law enforcement, organizations with expertise in civil rights, civil liberties, and government oversight, and the private sector to develop such policies. Directs the Secretary to: (1) create standard classified and unclassified formats for finished DHS intelligence products. (2) require that all such products be simultaneously prepared in the standard unclassified format, provided that such unclassified product would reasonably be expected to be of benefit to a state, local, tribal or territorial government, law enforcement agency or other emergency response provider, or the private sector, based on input provided by the Interagency Threat Assessment and Coordination Group Detail. (3) ensure that such policies protect the national security as well as the information privacy and legal rights of US persons. (4) establish an ongoing auditing mechanism that randomly selects classified information from each DHS component to assess whether applicable classification regulations have been followed, describe any problems with their administration, and recommend improvements in awareness and training to address the problems identified. (5) establish a process whereby employees may challenge original classification decisions and be rewarded for successful challenges resulting in the removal or downgrading of classification markings. (6) inform employees and contractors that failure to comply could subject them to a series of penalties. And (7) institute such penalties. Requires the Secretary to: (1) assess technologies by which an electronic identifying marker can be assigned to each DHS employee and contractor with original classification authority to track which documents have been classified by a particular employee or contractor, determine the circumstances when such documents have been shared, identify and address over-classification problems, and assess the information sharing impact of any such problems or misuse. (2) develop an implementation plan for a DHS standard for such technology. And (3) provide a copy of the implementation plan to the House and Senate homeland security committees. Directs the Secretary, in coordination with the Archivist, to: (1) require annual training for each DHS employee and contractor with classification authority or those responsible for analyzing, producing, or communicating written classified information. And (2) ensure that such program is conducted efficiently in conjunction with any other security, intelligence, or other training programs required by DHS to reduce the costs and administrative burdens associated with the additional training required. Requires the Secretary to: (1) implement a program to detail DHS personnel to the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) for one year for purposes of training and educating DHS personnel to better understand classification authorities, bolstering NARA's ability to conduct oversight, and ensuring that the policies and procedures established by the Secretary remain consistent with those established by the Archivist. (2) ensure that the program includes at least one individual for each DHS office with delegated original classification authority. And (3) report to Congress, in coordination with the Archivist, on the advisability of expanding the program on a government-wide basis and on the administrative and monetary costs of full compliance. Terminates the program on December 31, 2012.
Animal Agriculture Environmental Incentives Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited tax credit for the nutrient management costs of animal feeding operations.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) reduce the top marginal tax rate for estates and gifts to 30 percent. (2) increase the estate tax exclusion amount to $10 million, with an annual adjustment for inflation. And (3) increase the annual gift tax exclusion from $10,000 to $50,000.
Local Zoning Decisions Protection Act of 2017 This bill nullifies: the final Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) rule entitled quot, Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housingquot. And any successor rule substantially similar to it, and the notice relating to the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assessment Tool and any successor notice or rule substantially similar to it. No federal funds may be used to design, build, maintain, utilize, or provide access to a federal database of geospatial information on community racial disparities or disparities in access to affordable housing. HUD is required to: (1) consult with state, local government, and public housing agency officials to develop recommendations, consistent with applicable rulings of the US Supreme Court, to further the Fair Housing Act's purposes and policies. And (2) make a final report publicly available online within 12 months after enactment of this bill.
Fix United States Government Contracting Deficit with China Act - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to certify annually to Congress: (1) a determination of whether the Chinese government has prohibited its procurement of US goods during the preceding calendar year. And (2) the total value of US goods procured by the Chinesse government during that year, if the Chinese government has not prohibited such procurement. Prohibits the head of each executive agency from awarding a contract for the procurement of Chinese goods during the succeeding calendar year if the Chinese government has prohibited procurement of US goods during the preceding calendar year. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT), in such an instance, to prohibit a state or other entity from using funds made available to it from the Highway Trust Fund or the Airport and Airway Trust Fund for the award of a contract for the procurement of Chinese goods during the succeeding calendar year. Limits the total value of Chinese goods that may be procured by the US government during the succeeding calendar year to the total value of US goods procured by the Chinese Government during the preceding calendar year, if in fact the Chinese government has not prohibited its procurement of US goods during that preceding calendar year. Directs the International Trade Administration to establish a program to: (1) identify annually the total value of US goods procured by the Chinese government. And (2) provide notice in the Federal Register on or as soon as practicable after the date on which the total value of Chinese goods procured by the US government equals 50, 75, and 100 of the total value of US goods procured by the Chinese government during the preceding calendar year, for purposes of compliance with the limitation required by this Act.
Television Viewer Privacy Act of 2003 - Prohibits an interactive video-related service provider (provider) from collecting, maintaining, or disclosing any personally identifiable viewing information (information) regarding a subscriber without the prior written or electronic consent of such subscriber, except: (1) to render or conduct a legitimate business activity related to the service provided. (2) pursuant to a court order authorizing disclosure to a governmental entity. Or (3) to such subscriber. Requires, for such consent, that the subscriber be provided a separate statement that clearly and conspicuously informs the subscriber of: (1) the nature of the information collected and its intended use. (2) the nature, frequency, and purpose of any disclosure that may be made. (3) the period during which the information will be maintained by the provider. And (4) required limitations with respect to the collection, maintenance, and disclosure of such information by the provider and the methods by which such limitations may be enforced. Requires a provider to destroy any collected information as soon as it is no longer necessary. Provides for: (1) enforcement through the Federal Trade Commission or by the States, and (2) damages, including actual and punitive damages.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code and title II of the Social Security Act to set forth rules for filing returns with respect to domestic service employment taxes and requires such returns to be made on a calendar year basis. Subjects such taxes to estimated tax provisions. Makes filing requirements inapplicable to any employer liable for tax concerning remuneration for services other than domestic service in a private home. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to enter into agreements with States to collect the State unemployment tax imposed on remuneration for domestic service and transfers such amounts to a State's account in the Unemployment Trust Fund. Treats such taxes as domestic service employment taxes. Requires the Secretary to inform domestic service employers in private homes of their tax obligations. Adjusts the threshold for paying and withholding social security taxes on wages paid for domestic service in a private home. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to adjust such threshold amount in the same manner as adjustments to certain social security insurance amounts. Excludes domestic service in a private home by an individual 16 years and under from amendments made by this Act.
Police Creating Accountability by Making Effective Recording Available Act of 2015 or the Police CAMERA Act Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs to make grants to states, local governments, and Indian tribes to purchase or lease body-worn cameras for use by law enforcement officers, and for expenses related to the implementation of a body-worn camera program, in order to deter excessive force, improve accountability and transparency of use of force by law enforcement officers, assist in responding to complaints against officers, and improve evidence collection. Requires a grantee to: (1) develop, with community input, policies for the safe and effective use of body-worn cameras, for the secure storage, handling, and destruction of data collected, for protecting the privacy rights of any individual who may be recorded, and for the release of any data collected in accordance with the open records laws of the state. And (2) conduct periodic evaluations of the security of the storage and handling of the body-worn camera data. Requires a grantee to adopt data collection and retention protocols that: require an officer wearing a camera to provide an explanation if an activity that is required to be recorded is not recorded and to obtain a crime victim's or witness's consent to be recorded before interviewing him or her. Minimize the collection of data unrelated to a legitimate law enforcement purpose. Require the system used to store collected data to log all viewing, modification, or deletion of such data and to prevent its unauthorized access or disclosure. Prohibit any law enforcement officer from accessing the stored data without an authorized purpose. Require the law enforcement agency to collect and report data on incidences of use of force, the number of complaints filed against officers, the disposition of such complaints, and the number of times camera footage is used for evidence collection in investigations of crimes. And allow an individual to file a complaint with a law enforcement agency relating to the improper use of such cameras. Allows data collected by a grantee to be used only in internal and external investigations of misconduct by a law enforcement agency or officer, if there is reasonable suspicion that a recording contains evidence of a crime, or for limited training purposes. Prohibits a grantee from transferring any collected data to another law enforcement or intelligence agency, with specified exceptions for investigations of crimes and civil rights violations. Directs the Assistant Attorney General to study and report to Congress on the efficacy of body-worn cameras.
Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999 - Directs each Federal agency to develop and implement a plan that, among other things, streamlines and simplifies the application, administrative, and reporting procedures for Federal financial assistance programs administered by the agency. Requires each agency to publish the plan in the Federal Register, receive public comment, and hold public forums on the plan. Requires the designated lead agency official to consult with the representatives of non-Federal entities during plan development and implementation. Requires each Federal agency to submit the plan developed to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Congress and report annually thereafter on plan implementation and agency performance in meeting goals and objectives. Directs the Department of Housing and Urban Development to develop and implement a plan that establishes policies and procedures regarding an applicant who has submitted an application for Federal financial assistance to the agency that includes a technical deficiency under which the applicant: (1) shall be notified of the deficiency and be permitted to submit information to correct the deficiency within seven days. And (2) shall continue to be considered by the agency during such period and after such period if the deficiency is corrected. Requires the Director to direct, coordinate and assist Federal agencies in establishing: (1) a common application or set of common applications wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for Federal financial assistance from multiple Federal programs. (2) a common system wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for, manage, and report on the use of funding from multiple Federal programs. (3) uniform administrative rules for Federal financial assistance programs across different agencies. And (4) an interagency process for addressing ways to streamline and simplify Federal financial assistance administrative procedures and reporting requirements for non-Federal entities, ways to improve interagency and intergovernmental coordination of information collection and data sharing pertaining to Federal financial assistance programs, and ways to improve the timeliness, completeness, and quality of information received from financial assistance recipients. Permits the Director to: (1) designate a lead agency to assist him or her and use interagency working groups to assist in carrying out such responsibilities. And (2) exempt any Federal agency or Federal financial assistance program from the requirements of this Act if the Director determines that the agency does not have a significant number of Federal financial assistance programs. Requires the Director to maintain a list of exempted agencies available to the public through OMB's Internet site. Requires the Director to submit to the Congress a report containing recommendations for changes in law to improve the effectiveness and performance of Federal financial assistance programs. Requires the Director or lead agency to contract with the National Academy of Public Administration to evaluate the effectiveness of this Act. Requires the evaluation to be submitted to the lead agency, the Director, and the Congress. Requires the evaluation to be performed with input from State, local, and tribal governments and nonprofit organizations. Terminates this Act five years after enactment. Expresses the sense of the Congress that Federal agencies, in providing Federal financial assistance for economic development, should focus on communities with high poverty and unemployment rates.
Suspend Brazil GSP Act - Declares that it is the purpose of this Act to: (1) attain the immediate return of Sean Goldman and all children of the United States who are being held wrongfully in Brazil in contravention of the Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction. And (2) impress upon Brazil the importance of abiding by their obligations under the Hague Convention with respect to international child abduction cases involving children from the United States. Directs the President to: (1) notify World Trade Organization (WTO) member countries, not later than seven days after enactment of this Act, that the United States is suspending the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) for Brazil. And (2) suspend, not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act, GSP and duty-free treatment for Brazil. Authorizes the President to reinstate GSP and duty-free treatment for Brazil if he certifies to Congress that Brazil is complying with the Hague Convention.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Biotechnological Process Patents Title II: Biotechnological Material Patents Title I: Biotechnological Process Patents - Amends Federal patent law to cite conditions under which a claimed process of making or using a machine, manufacture, or composition of matter is not obvious . Establishes a presumption of validity with respect to a process claim even through a related product claim is invalidated . Title II: Biotechnological Material Patents - Makes any unauthorized person who imports or sells a product made by using a biotechnological material that is patented in the United States liable for patent infringement. Includes within the terms of such patents the right to exclude others from using, selling, or importing such products throughout or into the United States. Establishes exceptions to such requirements to the extent suitable to protect commercial investment made or business commenced before the effective date of such amendments.
Medicare Mental Health Improvement Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) include under Medicare coverage inpatient hospital services for up to 60 days during a year when furnished primarily for the diagnosis or treatment of mental illness or substance abuse, (2) require patient payment for services rendered beyond such limit. And (3) make such changes effective on January 1, 1996 . Includes under Medicare coverage the following intensive residential services for up to 120 days in a year: (1) residential detoxification centers, (2) crisis or mental illness residential treatment programs, (3) therapeutic family or group treatment homes. And (4) residential centers for substance abuse treatment. Requires facilities providing such services to be authorized to do so and to meet quality standards imposed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Allows additional days to be taken for intensive residential services from the 60 days permitted for inpatient hospital services , requiring at least 15 days to be retained yearly for the latter services. Provides for the determination of payment amounts for intensive residential services. Subjects inpatient hospitalization and intensive residential services to the same deductibles and copayment as inpatient hospital services for physical disorders. Makes mental health case management services available with no copayment and for an unlimited duration for an adult with serious mental illness, a child with a serious emotional disturbance, or an adult or child with a serious substance abuse disorder. Makes day treatment available for up to 180 days annually for children under 19. Allows additional days for day treatment services for such children to be taken from intensive residential services . Authorizes coverage for up to 90 days annually, with a 20 percent copayment requirement, for: (1) partial hospitalization, (2) psychiatric rehabilitation. (3) day treatment for substance abuse and for children under age 19, (4) in-home services, (5) case management. And (6) ambulatory detoxification. Permits non-physician mental health or substance abuse professionals to supervise an individual plan of treatment to the extent permitted under State law. Requires any program furnishing mental health or substance abuse services to be legally authorized under State law or accredited by an organization approved by the Secretary in consultation with the State. Requires such programs to meet standards established by the Secretary for the management of such services.
Construction Subcontractors Payment Protection Enhancement Act of 1998 - Amends the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act to provide for the establishment of policies assuring the timely payment of contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers. Amends the Miller Act to revise provisions concerning payment bonds.
Country-of-Origin Labeling for Fuels Act - Directs the Secretary of Energy to study and report to Congress with recommendations for appropriate methods and standards for requiring: (1) motor vehicle fuel suppliers to disclose to the next person in the motor vehicle fuel supply chain information regarding each country in which the fuel or any of its components were extracted, refined, or otherwise processed. And (2) motor vehicle retailers to disclose this information to consumers. Requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations requiring disclosure of country-of-origin information by motor vehicle fuel suppliers and retailers in accordance with such recommendations. Prohibits such regulations, however, from requiring the listing of more than one country-of-origin for a fuel blend containing fuel 70 or more of which originated in a single country. Authorizes the Secretary to impose a civil penalty of up to $10,000 on any person that knowingly violates such regulations.
Permit Reassurances Enabling Direct Improvements for Conservation, Tenants, and Species Act of 2018 or the PREDICTS Act of 2018 This bill amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to provide statutory authority for requirements regarding habitat conservation plans, candidate conservation agreements, and safe harbor agreements. Those plans and agreements give nonfederal property owners incentives, such as assurances regarding resource use restrictions, if the owner contributes towards the recovery or conservation of an endangered species, a threatened species, or a species that is a candidate for listing as an endangered or threatened species. Under current regulations, a habitat conservation plan is required for entities to hold an incidental take permit for a project that may result in the incidental taking of an endangered or threatened species. Under candidate conservation agreements and safe harbor agreements, property owners enter into agreements with the Department of the Interior or the Department of Commerce, as appropriate, to address the needs of endangered, threatened, or candidate species in exchange for assurances regarding resource use restrictions that might be imposed if circumstances change. Each incidental take permit, candidate conservation agreement, and safe harbor agreement must contain certain assurances governing permit revocation, changed circumstances, and unforeseen circumstances as prescribed by the bill. The departments may provide grants to individual private landowners to assist the landowners in carrying out candidate conservation agreements or safe harbor agreements.
National Reconstruction Study Area Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to study and report on the suitability and feasibility of designating an area comprised of historical sites in the historic district of Beaufort, South Carolina, relating to the Reconstruction Era as a unit of the National Park System.
Tribal Forestry Participation and Protection Act of 2016 This bill amends the Tribal Forest Protection Act of 2004 andnbsp. The National Indian Forest Resources Management Act to establish: a timeframenbsp. For consideration of tribal requests to protect Indian forest land or rangeland, a tribal forest management demonstration project. And pilot authority for the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service to, upon request of an Indian tribe, treat certain federal forest land as Indian land for purposes ofnbsp, specified land management activities.
Volunteer Protection Act of 1993 - Prescribes circumstances under which volunteers working for nonprofit organizations or government entities shall be immune from personal financial liability for acts on behalf of the organization or entity. Sets forth exceptions and conditions that a State may impose on the granting of such immunity. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to increase by one percent the fiscal year allotment which would otherwise be made to a State to carry out the Social Services Block Grant Program under title XX of the Social Security Act if such State has, within two years, certified to the Secretary that it has enacted a State law which provides such immunity. Provides for the continuation of such increase based on an annual recertification.
Strengthening Local Transportation Security Capabilities Act of 2018 This bill directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to prioritize the assignment of officers and intelligence analysts from the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and DHS's Office of Intelligence and Analysis, to locations with participating state, local, and regional fusion centers in jurisdictions with a high-risk surface transportation asset in order to enhance the security of such asset. A quot, surface transportation assetquot. Includes facilities, equipment, or systems used to provide transportation services by: (1) a public transportation agency, (2) a railroad carrier, (3) an owner or operator of bus services or a bus terminal, or (4) other facilities as determined by DHS. Officers and intelligence analysts assigned to locations with participating state, local, and regional fusion centers shall participate in the generation and dissemination of transportation security intelligence products, with an emphasis on terrorist and other threats to surface transportation assets that: (1) assist state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies in deploying their resources. (2) promote more consistent and timely sharing of threat information among jurisdictions. And (3) enhance DHS's situational awareness of such terrorist and other threats. The TSA shall: (1) make available to public and private sector stakeholders a framework for establishing an integrated and unified operations center responsible for overseeing daily operations of a transportation facility that promotes coordination for responses to terrorism, serious incidents, and other purposes. And (2) report to the House Committee on Homeland Security and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on operations centers at transportation facilities at which the TSA has a presence. DHS, may develop, through the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers, a training program to enhance the protection, preparedness, and response capabilities of law enforcement agencies with respect to terrorism and other serious incidents at a surface transportation asset.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on July 3, 2014. Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2014 - Directs the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to: (1) conduct outreach to all US airports at which the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) performs, or oversees the implementation and performance of, security measures. And (2) give necessary technical assistance to verify that such airports have in place individualized working plans for responding to security incidents inside the airport perimeter, including active shooters, acts of terrorism, and incidents that target passenger-screening checkpoints. Requires the Assistant Secretary to report to Congress on the outreach findings, including an analysis of the level of preparedness such airports have to respond to such incidents. Requires the Assistant Secretary to: (1) identify best practices that exist across airports for security incident planning, management, and training. And (2) establish a mechanism through which to share those best practices with other airport operators nationwide. Requires the Assistant Secretary also to: (1) certify annually to specified congressional committees that all screening personnel have participated in practical training exercises for active shooter scenarios, and (2) analyze for those same committees how TSA can use cost savings achieved through efficiencies to increase over the next five fiscal years the funding available for checkpoint screening law enforcement support reimbursable agreements. Declares that no additional appropriations are authorized to carry out this Act. Requires this Act to be carried out using amounts otherwise available. Requires the Assistant Secretary to review the interoperable communications capabilities of law enforcement, fire, and medical personnel responsible for responding to security incidents at all US airports at which the TSA performs, or oversees the implementation and performance of, security measures.
Small Business Economic Impact Analysis Act of 2005 - Prohibits an agency from making a qualified termination or restructuring unless it conducts a detailed analysis of the impact on small businesses and small governmental jurisdictions of the proposed termination or restructuring. Requires: (1) a related cost-benefit analysis. And (2) the agency to publish a draft of the analysis at least 180 days before undertaking the termination or restructuring. Directs the: (1) agency to publish a final economic analysis. And (2) Comptroller General to review such final analysis. Prohibits an agency from taking final action on a termination or restructuring until its analysis receives a satisfactory review from the Comptroller General. Authorizes judicial review for any small business or small governmental jurisdiction adversely affected or aggrieved by a qualifying termination or restructuring.
Navajo Nation Higher Education Act of 2004 (sic) - Authorizes the Navajo Nation's Dine College to receive all Federal funding and resources under this Act and other laws for its operation, improvement, and growth. Authorizes the College to expend certain funds to undertake all renovations and repairs to its infrastructure, as identified by a strategic plan approved by it and submitted to the Secretary of the Interior. Allows funds to be treated as non-Federal, private funds of the College. Authorizes appropriations to the College for: (1) operation and maintenance, to be funded by the Secretary separately from funding institutions under the Tribally Controlled College or University Assistance Act of 1978. And (2) facilities and capital projects, to be funded through any of specified Federal agencies. Supersedes and repeals the Navajo Community College Act.
Summer Relief for Motorists Act of 2006 - Expresses the sense of Congress that states can assist motorists by temporarily suspending state gasoline taxes without jeopardizing their commitment to transportation infrastructure investment. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to suspend excise taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel, and kerosene from the enactment of this Act until September 4, 2006 . Provides for reimbursement to the Highway Trust Fund and the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund for tax revenues lost during the suspension period. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to suspend the application of any federal law exempting crude oil and natural gas producers from the payment of royalties for production activities on federal lands during periods when the average price of crude oil exceeds $35.86 per barrel and the average wellhead price of natural gas exceeds $4.48 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from the gross income of shareholders of controlled foreign corporations the amount of any distribution received from such corporation, if the shareholder meets the requirements for reinvestment in US property or the creation of domestic jobs.
Establishes the United States Office for Native Hawaiian Relations within the Office of the Secretary of the Interior. Establishes the Native Hawaiian Interagency Coordinating Group to: (1) coordinate Federal programs and policies or actions that may significantly or uniquely affect Native Hawaiian resources, rights, or lands. (2) assure that each Federal agency develops a policy on consultation with Native Hawaiians. And (3) assure the participation of such agencies in the development of an annual report to Congress. Recognizes the right of the Native Hawaiian people to adopt organic governing documents, to be submitted to the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to certify that: (1) such documents meet specified certifications. And (2) the State of Hawaii supports the recognition of such Native Hawaiian government as evidenced by a resolution or act of the Hawaiian State legislature. Extends Federal recognition to such government as the representative governing body of the Native Hawaiian people upon election of officers and certification by the Secretary. Authorizes appropriations. Reaffirms the delegation by the United States of authority to the State of Hawaii to address the conditions of the indigenous, native people of Hawaii. Permits the United States, upon Federal recognition of the Native Hawaiian government, to enter into an agreement with the State and such government regarding the transfer of lands, resources, and assets dedicated to Native Hawaiian use.
Continuity of Electric Capacity Resources Act This bill amends the Federal Power Act to require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to notify transmission organizations that they must file an electric capacity resources report if they have a tariff on file that addresses the procurement of electric capacity resources. Report contents must: identify electric capacity resources available to the transmission organization. Describe the fuel sources and operational characteristics of each electric capacity resource. Evaluate the financial health, viability, and projected remaining years of service of these available electric capacity resources. And assess the current and projected reliability of the elements of the bulk-power system under the transmission organization's control. Subsequent to this report, transmission organizations must also submit tariff amendments that would achieve specified objectives, including a diverse generation portfolio and the availability of transmission facilities and transmission support services that would provide a continuous supply of electricity for customers. The bill shields any person from liability for actions taken to comply with a FERC order for temporary connections and exchanges of facilities during war or an energy emergency.
Urban Entrepreneurial Opportunities Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a deduction for equity contributions made by a corporation to an urban entrepreneurial opportunity financing subsidiary of such corporation. Requires the subsidiary to use such contribution in making qualified enterprise zone business loans to qualified small business concerns. Establishes an overall program limitation among the contributing corporations to be allocated by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
Nuclear Facility and Material Security Act of 2008 - Directs the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to issue a final rule requiring: (1) all commercial nuclear power reactors approved for construction after enactment of this Act to be designed to withstand a large commercial aircraft impact. And (2) certain spent fuel security enhancements. Directs the NRC to issue an Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation security final rule that: (1) makes such installations subject to specified security evaluation requirements of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. And (2) incorporates such installations into a certain design basis threat rule. Requires the NRC to consider the likely consequences of a potential terrorist attack in any review it is required to undertake under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Amends the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 to repeal the statement that certain requirements to make potassium iodide tablets available to state and local governments for stockpiling shall cease to apply if the President determines that there is an alternative and more effective prophylaxis or preventive measures for adverse thyroid conditions that may result from the release of radionuclides from nuclear power plants. Vests the Secretary of Health and Human Services with all federal authority over the distribution of potassium iodide as a medical prophylaxis for radiological exposure in humans. Directs the Secretary to arrange with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) for studies on appropriate emergency response plans to nonroutine releases of radioactive materials, including from nuclear power plants, spent fuel storage facilities, radiological dispersal devices, and improvised nuclear explosive devices. Directs the Secretary to establish guidelines for the stockpiling and distribution of potassium iodide tablets in the event of a nuclear incident. Amends the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 to establish within the Office of the Inspector General of the NRC a unit with appropriate and adequate technical staff with nuclear power plant experience to audit NRC regulatory oversight regarding civilian nuclear facilities. Amends the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to require the NRC to promulgate final rules governing radiation source protection measures. Directs the NRC to publish final rules: (1) revising regulations on security requirements for transportation of radiation sources. (2) requiring carriers and transporters transporting radiation sources within the United States to be licensed by the NRC. (3) revising National Source Tracking System regulations to require technologies and systems that can provide real-time tracking and enable locating of specified radiation sources. And (4) establishing requirements leading to the replacement of all high-risk radiation sources. Authorizes appropriations for the acceptance, storage, and disposition of high-risk radiation sources by the Department of Energy United States Radiological Threat Reduction Program.
Small Business Mergers, Acquisitions, Sales, and Brokerage Simplification Act of 2014 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to exempt from its registration requirements certain merger and acquisition (Mamp. A) brokers and associated persons. Denies such registration exemption, however, to brokers who: (1) receive, hold, transmit, or have custody of any funds or securities to be exchanged by parties to a transfer of ownership of an eligible privately held company. Or (2) engage on behalf of an issuer in a public offering of securities that are either subject to mandatory registration, or with respect to which the issuer must file periodic information, documents, and reports. Prohibits the construction of this Act to limit any other authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to exempt any person, or any class of persons, from any provision of this Act, including any related rule or regulation.
Equitable Health Care for Severe Mental Illnesses Act of 1993 - Declares that it is the policy of the United States that: (1) persons with severe mental illnesses must not be discriminated against in health care. And (2) health care coverage, provided through any financing, must provide for the treatment of severe mental illnesses in a way that is equitable and commensurate with that provided for other major illnesses. Requires health care coverage, in order to be considered nondiscriminatory and equitable under this Act, to cover services that are essential to the effective treatment of severe mental illnesses in a manner that: (1) is not more restrictive than coverage provided for other major physical illnesses. (2) provides adequate financial protection to the person requiring the medical treatment for a severe mental illness. And (3) is consistent with effective and common methods of controlling health care costs for other major physical illnesses.
Provides for the relief of Judge Neringa Venckiene, who the Government of Lithuania seeks on charges related to her pursuit of justice against Lithuanian public officials accused of sexually molesting her young niece.
Clean Vehicles Incentive Act ofnbsp. 2015 Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain businesses located in areas designated as nonattainment areas under the Clean Air Act a general business tax credit for the cost of certain clean-fuel vehicle property and the use of clean-burning fuel. Allows a new qualified hybrid motor vehicle tax credit for hybrid motor vehicles placed in service after December 31, 2014, by an eligible business if substantially all of the use of the vehicle is in a nonattainment area.
Government Audit Reform Act of 2010 - Expresses the sense of Congress that the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) should follow the recommendations of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) report entitled Single Audit: Opportunities Exist to Improve the Single Audit Process and Oversight (GAO-09-307R), issued March 13, 2009. Amends the Single Audit Act of 1984 to require the OMB Director to monitor and report annually to specified congressional committees and the Comptroller General on the risk, cost-benefit, efficiency, and effectiveness of the implementation of this Act by federal agencies by: (1) evaluating such implementation governmentwide. And (2) identifying additional guidance and resources necessary to improve such implementation, including revisions to regulations, best practices, and processes. Requires the OMB Director to designate an OMB office or another federal entity to act on OMB's behalf in such monitoring and reporting. Requires the OMB Director to evaluate and report to specified congressional committees and the Comptroller General on the process for the single audit and the program-specific audit to identify simplified alternatives for achieving the purposes of the Single Audit Act of 1984 and the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 for the audits of small recipients that also achieve the proper balance between risk and cost-effective accountability for small and large recipients. Requires the OMB Director to evaluate and report to specified congressional committees and the Comptroller General on the implementation of the recommendations made to it by the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency in the report entitled Report on National Single Audit Sampling Project, dated June 2007. Establishes a deadline for OMB to designate such oversight entity.
Telecommunications Trust Act of 1998 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to state that contributions currently required of providers of interstate telecommunications services for the preservation and enhancement of universal telecommunications services shall no longer be required after the date on which appropriated funds are first available for Federal universal service support. Authorizes the Federal Communications Commission to continue to distribute balances of such contributions that remain available on such date. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1999 through 2004 from the Telecommunications Trust Fund to provide Federal universal service support, such funds to be the exclusive source of funding for such support. Allow such funds to be available on a school year basis in lieu of a fiscal year basis. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish the Telecommunications Trust Fund for the deposit of amounts appropriated for universal services support. Transfers to such Fund 100 percent of amounts received in the Treasury after December 31, 1998, as certain communications excise taxes. Makes Fund amounts available only to provide for Federal universal service support mechanisms.
Provides for: (1) an automatic one-year extension of the authorization of appropriations for a crop year and direct spending programs and authorities of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002. And (2) an additional one-year extension of them if the President does not submit implementing legislation to Congress with respect to the Doha Development Round of World Trade Organization (WTO) negotiations by January 15, 2008. Provides, with the exception of peanut storage costs, the same automatic one-year extension and additional one-year extension for: (1) authorizations of appropriations in the Act scheduled to expire on September 30, 2007. And (2) termination of a program or authority in calendar year 2007.
Military Injury Surgical Systems Integrated Operationally Nationwide to Achieve ZERO Preventable Deaths Act or the MISSION ZERO Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to certain trauma centers to enable military trauma care providers and trauma teams to provide trauma care and related acute care at those trauma centers. Funds may be used to train and incorporate military trauma care providers into the trauma center, including expenditures for malpractice insurance, office space, information technology, specialty education and supervision, trauma programs, and state license fees. Grantees must allow the military trauma care providers to be deployed for military operations, training, or response to a mass casualty incident.
Local Food for Healthy Families Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to establish the local food for healthy families program to make grants to specified entities to provide low-income families receiving supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits with incentives to purchase fruits and vegetables.
National Women's High-Growth Business Bipartisan Task Force Act of 2012 - Establishes the National Women's High-Growth Business Bipartisan Task Force to provide women-owned, start-up and high-growth business advice, research, and policy recommendations to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), the Assistant Administrator of the SBA's Office of Women's Business Ownership, Congress, the President, and other federal departments and agencies. Directs the Task Force, among other things, to review, monitor, and advise on plans and programs developed in the public and private sectors that affect the ability of small businesses owned and controlled by women to obtain capital and credit and to access markets. Requires the Task Force to report annually to the President and the congressional small business committees on the activities of the Task Force. Directs the SBA's Chief Counsel to: (1) semiannually conduct a study of an issue of importance to small businesses owned and controlled by women, and (2) submit each study's results to the Task Force and the small business committees. Amends the Women's Business Ownership Act of 1988 to repeal provisions establishing the Interagency Committee on Women's Business Enterprise.
California New River Restoration Act of 2016 This bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a California New River restoration program for the river that starts in Mexicali, Mexico, flows north into the United States through Calexico, passes through the Imperial Valley, and drains into the Salton Sea. In carrying out the program, the EPA must: (1) adopt a New River-wide strategy, and (2) provide grants and technical assistance for coordinating restoration and protection activities.
Estate and Gift Tax Phase-Out Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to phase-out and repeal, effective January 1, 2003, the estate tax, gift tax, and the tax on generation-skipping transfers.
Information Classification Act of 1994 - Amends the National Security Act of 1994 to add provisions relating to the classification and declassification of information. Allows information to be classified under such Act only if the public interest in knowing such information is outweighed by national security damage which could be expected to result from the release of such information. Provides that if there is reasonable doubt about the need to classify information, it shall not be classified. Specifies information that may be classified and purposes for which information shall not be classified . Provides: (1) classification levels, (2) classification authority only for the President and his designees. And (3) classification duration . Establishes the Information Security Oversight Office. Requires such Office to periodically review the classification of information under such Act. Directs the President to develop and submit to the Congress for approval a proposal for implementing this Act. Requires congressional approval by joint resolution.
Ballistic Missile Defense Act of 1996 - Declares that it is US policy to develop by the year 2000 a National Missile Defense System (System) that: (1) can be deployed in 2003. (2) shall be capable of providing a highly effective defense of the United States against limited ballistic missile attacks. And (3) shall be rigorously tested during development. Sets forth, in the following order, US policy regarding the priority for the development and deployment of ballistic missile defense programs: (1) maintaining the operational readiness of the armed forces and modernization of weapon systems to ensure mission effectiveness in the future. (2) completing the development and deployment of essential theater missile defense systems. And (3) developing the System by the year 2000 for deployment in the year 2003 and developing space-based sensors. Directs the Secretary, in order to implement that policy, to initiate a National Missile Defense Program which shall include: (1) a ground-based interceptor system that provides coverage of the continental United States and Hawaii, (2) fixed ground-based radars, (3) space-based sensors. And (4) battle management, command, control, and communications. Specifies Program implementing and reporting requirements. Requires the President to take specified actions to: (1) defend against weapons of mass destruction by preventing the spread of fissile materials and other components. (2) reduce the threat to the United States from such weapons delivered by intercontinental ballistic missiles. And (3) carry out a program to enhance US capabilities relating to the threat to the United States of a chemical or biological weapons attack inside the United States by unconventional means . Requires the President to: (1) carry out requirements of this Act in a manner consistent with the ABM Treaty, (2) seek Treaty amendments necessary to deploy the System. And (3) treat any negotiated Treaty amendment as having entered into force only if it is made in the same manner as a treaty. Specifies conditions to be satisfied in order for Treaty modifications restricting theater ballistic missile defense systems to be binding on the United States.
Marine Renewable Energy Research and Development Act of 2007 - Instructs the Secretary of Energy to support research and demonstration programs to expand marine renewable energy production, including: (1) study and comparison of existing marine renewable energy extraction technologies, (2) investigation of utility grid and intermittency issues. (3) increased survivability of marine renewable energy extraction technologies, including development of corrosive-resistant materials. (4) a study of environmental impacts of such technologies and ways to address adverse impacts. And (5) establishment of protocols, in conjunction with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), for how the ocean community may best interact with marine renewable energy devices. Directs the Secretary to develop siting criteria for marine renewable energy generation projects prior to installation of such technologies. Directs the Secretary to award grants to institutions of higher education to establish National Marine Renewable Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Centers to serve as information clearinghouses for the marine renewable energy industry, collecting and disseminating information on best practices related to developing and managing enhanced marine renewable energy systems resources. Authorizes the Secretary to give special consideration to historically black colleges and universities and land grant universities that meet prescribed criteria. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2012, excluding certain ocean energy programs already receiving funds under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
Education in Vocational Technology Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to States to assist local educational agencies in: (1) improving the quality of or developing instruction and training in manufacturing and other vocational technologies. And (2) purchasing state-of-the-art equipment for technical vocational education. Requires State Boards of Vocational Education to distribute at least 90 percent of such amounts to local education agencies, equitably among urban and rural areas. Authorizes appropriations.
Harold Hughes-Bill Emerson Commission on Alcoholism Act - Establishes the Harold Hughes-Bill Emerson Commission on Alcoholism. Includes among the duties of the Commission: (1) promoting the development of a national consensus on policy issues related to alcoholism. (2) evaluating the interest of the provider and medical communities in new medications related to alcoholism and the barriers to the communities in obtaining such medications. (3) in conjunction with the National Institute on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse, conducting a study to identify the current state-of-the-art alcohol research, unmet alcohol research needs, and appropriate research funding in view of the size and scope of the alcoholism problem. (4) evaluating and making recommendations regarding the education of physicians in American medical schools concerning alcoholism and the certification of other individuals trained to provide alcoholism prevention and treatment services. And (5) making recommendations designed to reduce and prevent alcoholism, including recommendations concerning appropriate roles for the Federal, State, and local governments and the private sector and changes needed to Federal laws and programs. Requires the Commission to report to the President and the Congress on its findings. Authorizes appropriations.
Community Pharmacy Fairness Act of 2007 - Entitles independent pharmacies negotiating contract terms with a health plan for the provision of health care items or services to the same treatment under the antitrust laws as the treatment to which bargaining units recognized under the National Labor Relations Act are entitled. Treats such a pharmacy as an employee engaged in concerted activities in connection with such negotiations. Exempts actions taken in good faith reliance on this Act from being subject to criminal sanctions or civil penalties beyond actual damages incurred. Prohibits: (1) exempting from the antitrust laws any agreement or otherwise unlawful conspiracy that excludes, limits the participation or reimbursement of, or otherwise limits the scope of services to be provided by any independent pharmacy or group of independent pharmacies with respect to the performance of services that are within their scope of practice as defined or permitted by relevant law or regulation. And (2) applying this Act to negotiations between independent pharmacies and health plans pertaining to federal health benefits.
This bill directs the Speaker of the House and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the posthumous award of a Congressional Gold Medal to Lyndon Baines Johnson in recognition of his contributions to the nation, including passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, the Social Security Amendments Act (Medicare) of 1965, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Higher Education Act of 1965, and the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1965. Requires such medal to be given to the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum following its award, where it will be available for display and research.
Federal Internship Improvement Act - Directs the head of each federal agency operating an internship program to appoint an internship coordinator within the agency. Directs the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to make publicly available on the Internet: (1) the coordinator's name and contact information and information regarding application procedures and deadlines for the program, and (2) links to the websites where such information is displayed. Requires OPM to establish a centralized electronic database that contains the names, contact information, and relevant skills of individuals who have completed or are nearing completion of an internship program and are currently seeking full-time federal employment. Requires the agency operating an internship program to conduct an exit interview, and administer a survey, with each intern who completes the program.
Rail-Highway Grade Crossing Safety Act of 1994 - Includes rail-highway crossing closures among the safety projects for which an increased Federal share of construction costs apply. Authorizes any State, after adopting a policy requiring the review of the need for all new public at-grade rail-highway crossings, to use certain authorized funds to provide an incentive payment to a local jurisdiction upon the permanent closing by the jurisdiction of a public at-grade crossing, provided that such payments may not exceed $7,500 and that the funds are matched by an equal payment from the railroad owning the tracks on which the crossing is located. Directs the local jurisdiction receiving funds to use the Federal funds portion of the incentive payment for transportation safety improvements only. Directs the Secretary to establish guidelines to enable States to determine the public benefits and costs resulting from any new rail-highway grade crossings. Revises provisions regarding Operation Lifesaver to require the Secretary of Transportation to set aside $500,000 of funds authorized to be appropriated for the surface transportation program (STP) for a given fiscal year for carrying out a public information and education program to help prevent and reduce motor vehicle accidents, injuries, and fatalities, to improve driver performance at railway-highway crossings, and to help prevent trespassing on rail rights-of-way and resulting injuries and fatalities. Directs that expenditure of any funds in excess of $300,000 be contingent upon receipt of matching funds from nonpublic sources. Requires the Secretary to: (1) set aside $15 million of funds authorized to be appropriated for the STP for a given fiscal year to carry out a program to provide a financial incentive to States that review and implement grade crossing safety improvements on a corridor basis, and (2) issue investment criteria for approving projects.
National Hate Crimes Hotline Act of 2016 This bill authorizes the Department of Justice (DOJ) to award grants to: (1) private, nonprofit entities to establish and operate a national, toll-free telephone hotline and an Internet website to assist victims of hate crimes. And (2) state and local law enforcement entities for educational and training programs on solving hate crimes and establishing dialogues with members of at-risk communities. Additionally, the bill directs DOJ to establish a grant program for local organizations to establish or expand programs that provide services to victims of hate crimes.
Lifelong Improvements in Food and Exercise (LIFE) Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to carry out a national program to conduct and support activities regarding individuals who are overweight or obese in order to make progress toward the goal of significantly reducing obesity in the United States. Requires such activities to include: (1) training health professionals, (2) educating the public. And (3) developing and demonstrating intervention strategies for use at worksites and in community settings.
Computer Crime Enforcement Act - Directs the Office of Justice Programs to make a grant to each State, subject to the availability of appropriations, which shall be used to: (1) assist State and local law enforcement agencies in enforcing State and local criminal laws relating, and in educating the public to prevent and identify, computer crime. (2) assist in educating and training State and local law enforcement officers and prosecutors to conduct investigations and forensic analyses of evidence and prosecutions of computer crime. (3) assist State and local law enforcement officers and prosecutors in acquiring computer and other equipment to conduct investigations and forensic analysis of evidence of computer crimes. And (4) facilitate and promote the sharing of Federal law enforcement expertise and information about the investigation, analysis, and prosecution of computer crimes with State and local law enforcement officers and prosecutors, including the use of multi-jurisdictional task forces. Requires a State, to be eligible to receive a grant, to provide assurances to the Attorney General that the State has: (1) in effect laws that penalize computer crime. (2) made an assessment of the State and local resource needs. And (3) a plan for coordinating the programs funded under this Act with other federally funded technical assistant and training programs. Sets the Federal cost share at up to 90 percent, subject to a waiver. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Attorney General to use amounts made available under this Act for grants to Indian tribes.
Foreign-Held Debt Transparency and Threat Assessment Act - Expresses the sense of Congress about the growing federal debt of the United States, the increasing US dependence on foreign creditors like the People's Republic of China, whose holdings could give China a tool with which to manipulate US policymaking and pose a direct threat to the national economy and national security. Directs the President to report quarterly to certain congressional committees on the risks posed by foreign holdings of US debt instruments, and make such report public on the Internet. Directs the President to formulate, report to the appropriate congressional committees, and implement a plan of action to reduce an unsustainable level of risk to an acceptable and sustainable level, in a manner that results in a reduction in federal spending, in any case in which the President makes specified determinations that a foreign country's holdings of US debt instruments pose an unacceptable risk to long-term national security or economic stability of the United States.
African Free Trade Initiative Act This bill amends the African Growth and Opportunity Act to revise certain plan and reporting requirements relating to the President's negotiating and entering into free trade agreements with interested beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries. The President shall develop a plan for negotiating and entering into one or more free trade agreements with 15 of the sub-Saharan African countries that are most ready for a free trade agreement with the United States. The United States Trade Representative and the US Agency for International Development (USAID) shall coordinate with the Millennium Challenge Corporation regarding countries with shared development objectives that have entered into a Millennium Challenge Compact in order to develop and carry out such plans. USAID long-term development assistance funds for sub-Saharan Africa may be used to: carry out plans, including deployment of resources in individual eligible sub-Saharan African countries to assist them in the development of institutional capacities to carry out those plans. And coordinate US efforts to establish free trade agreements in order to increase trade between the United States and sub-Saharan African countries, as well as investment in those countries.
Veterans Life Insurance Opportunity Act of 1998 - Amends Veterans' Group Life Insurance (VGLI) provisions to allow any person whose Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) was continued after termination of duty or discharge from military service before the date on which VGLI became effective, and whose coverage under SGLI terminated less than four years prior to such effective date, to apply for VGLI coverage within one year from the effective date of VGLI, in an amount equal to the insured's SGLI amount which was not converted to an individual policy under prior law. Provides a coverage period of five years, less the time elapsed between SGLI termination and the effective date of VGLI. Allows such insurance conversion for certain other individuals who did not convert SGLI coverage. Requires a person who cannot meet the good health requirements for VGLI coverage solely because of a service-connected disability to have such disability waived. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide due notice to eligible individuals of the opportunity for such conversion.
Medicare Prescription Drug Cost Containment Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, on the same date on which the President submits a budget to Congress, to determine to Congress whether excess general revenue Medicare prescription drug funding is projected for the fiscal year for which the budget is submitted. Treats an affirmative determination as a Medicare part D funding warning in the fiscal year beginning on October 1 of the year in which the determination is made. Amends Federal money and finance law, as amended by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, to direct the President to submit to Congress proposed legislation to respond to such a warning within 15 days after the budget submission to Congress for the succeeding year. States that such requirement shall not apply if, during the year in which the warning is made, legislation is enacted which eliminates excess general revenue Medicare funding for the period beginning with the fiscal year for which the determination is made through September 30, 2013, as certified by the Board of Trustees of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund. Expresses the sense of Congress that legislation submitted by the President in response to a warning should be designed to eliminate excess general revenue Medicare funding for the period that begins with the fiscal year for which the determination is made through September 30, 2013. Sets out the special procedures for House and Senate consideration of the President's legislative proposal in response to such warning.
Law Enforcement Protection Act of 1997 - Amends the Federal criminal code to exempt qualified current and former law enforcement officers carrying appropriate written identification from State and local laws prohibiting the carrying of a concealed firearm. Consents to the formation of interstate compacts or agreements for cooperative efforts in enabling authorized individuals to carry concealed weapons.
Drug Rebate Equalization Act of 2009 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to reduce the costs of prescription drugs for enrollees of Medicaid managed care organizations by extending to such organizations the discounts offered under fee-for-service Medicaid plans. Requires the state contract with a Medicaid managed care organization to require that payment for covered outpatient drugs dispensed to Medicaid-eligible individuals enrolled with the organization be subject to the same rebate as the state is subject to. Requires also that capitation rates paid to the organization be: (1) based on actual cost experience related to rebates. And (2) subject to the federal regulations requiring actuarially sound rates.
Home Construction Lending Regulatory Improvement Act of 2011 - Directs the appropriate federal banking agencies to initiate a coordinated rulemaking with respect to financial institutions under their respective jurisdictions that make real estate loans to home builders. Requires such rulemaking to provide for: (1) elimination of the 100 of bank capital measurement, (2) realistic market-based appraisals, and (3) a prohibition against compelling lenders to call or curtail loans in good standing. Prohibits a federal banking agency also from preventing a qualified financial institution from making a real estate loan to a home builder that has a viable project.
National Childhood Brain Tumor Prevention Network Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), acting through the Director of the National Cancer Institute, to establish, administer, and coordinate a National Childhood Brain Tumor Prevention Network to: (1) provide grants for research on the causes of and risk factors associated with childhood brain tumors. (2) assemble a panel of experts to provide ongoing guidance and recommendations on research funded by the Network, including on a common study design and standard protocols. And (3) designate a central laboratory to collect, analyze, and aggregate data with respect to research funded by the Network and to make such data and analysis available to researchers.
Veterans Benefits Network Act This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to make a grant to an eligible entity to establish or expand a regional technology system to provide an active database and enrollment system that can be used by a network of private, public, and non-profit entities to assist veterans and their family members in applying for benefits and services offered by such entities.
Gifted and Talented Students Education Act of 2003 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish a grants program for gifted and talented students. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award such grants to State educational agencies to make subgrants to local educational agencies to develop or expand gifted and talented education programs, and provide direct educational services and materials. Requires such grants to be made on a competitive basis if appropriations are within certain minimum and maximum amounts, and on a formula basis if appropriations exceed such specified maximum. Sets forth authorized State and local uses of grant funds and authorized activities. Prohibits use of such funds for purchase or upgrading of technological hardware. Directs the Secretary to ensure, where appropriate, that provision is made for the equitable participation of students and teachers in private nonprofit elementary schools and secondary schools, including the participation of teachers and other personnel in professional development programs serving such children.
Less Imprecision in Species Treatment Act of 2018 or the LIST Act of 2018 This bill amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to revise the process for removing a species from the endangered or threatened species lists. The Department of the Interior or the Department of Commerce, as appropriate, must remove a species from the endangered or threatened species lists if Interior produces or receives substantial scientific or commercial information demonstrating that the species is recovered or that recovery goals set for the species have been met. The publication and notice of a proposed regulation to remove a species from the lists must consist solely of a notice of the removal. The bill establishes a process for removing species from the lists if they were erroneously or wrongfully listed. The bill prohibits a person from submitting a petition to list a species as a threatened or endangered species for 10 years if the person knowingly submitted a petition with information that was inaccurate beyond scientifically reasonable margins of error, fraudulent, or misrepresentative.
Directs the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior, prior to making permanent road closings on National Forest System or Bureau of Land Management lands, respectively, to: (1) provide affected State and local officials with advance notice showing affected roads and traffic patterns. And (2) provide for public notice and comment. Requires: (1) the Secretaries to meet annually with State and local officials to describe agency proposals that will or may result in permanent road closures within the coming two fiscal years. And (2) information to be provided at the first meeting respecting the previous five years' road closings.
Child Care Criminal Background Check Act of 2009 - Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to require child care providers that are licensed by a state or receive funds under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Program to: (1) obtain a comprehensive criminal background check of each employee who provides child care services, each applicant for employment, and each family child care provider who provides or applies to provide such services. And (2) refuse to employ individuals convicted of crimes of violence or crimes against children. Reduces by 10 allotments to states that fail to comply with the requirements of this Act.
Comprehensive Strategy to Destroy ISIS Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of State to jointly develop and submit to Congress: (1) a strategy to destroy the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham (ISIS) and its affiliates, (2) a biennial update of such strategy, and (3) a strategy to bring the civil war in Syria to a sustainable end. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to Congress an assessment of: the willingness and capabilities of coalition members and allies to defeat ISIS with their own military assets. The presence of ISIS or its affiliates in countries other than Syria, Iraq, Libya, Egypt, and Afghanistan, preventing radicalization of citizens of regional countries by ISIS. The number of foreign fighters joining ISIS and tactics to prevent further recruitment. And significant US intelligence gaps concerning ISIS and the ability to carry out a regional strategy to defeat it.
HELP Commission Act - Establishes the Helping Enhance the Livelihood of People (HELP) Around the Globe Commission to: (1) identify objectives and beneficiaries of US development assistance, (2) evaluate cases in which assistance has been successful. (3) study ways of expanding educational opportunities and investments in people, coordinating US assistance programs with those of other countries and international organizations, ensuring the safety of development assistance workers, strengthening indigenous nongovernmental organizations in grassroots development, placing conditions on governments receiving assistance, and measuring results of targeting US assistance to the least developed countries, (4) assess infrastructure needs, (5) study whether additional resources are needed for tangible results. (6) compare the effectiveness of increased and open trade with development assistance. (7) analyze how political pressures affect the assistance decision making process and how assistance decisions can involve more people of the recipient countries, (8) recommend standards for graduating recipient countries from US assistance. (9) analyze whether assistance should be used to achieve foreign policy objectives. And (10) analyze how to evaluate the performance of the US assistance programs, including in democratization efforts.
Rural Broadband Access Enhancement Act - Amends the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 to redefine eligible rural community. Permits a loan or loan guarantee applicant in an area where 40 of the residents are without broadband access to qualify with a 10 loan equity position. Provides for: (1) paperwork reduction. And (2) program outreach to underserved areas. Prohibits loan or loan guarantees for new broadband service in communities with three or more service providers. Provides that for each fiscal year: (1) not more than 10 of program funds shall be available to providers with more than 10 of national subscriber lines. And (2) 40 of program funds shall be available to providers with between 2-10 of national subscriber lines. Revises the amortization period from the life of the asset to 35 years. Requires an annual broadband program report to Congress.
Secure Fence Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security, within 18 months of enactment of this Act, to take appropriate actions to achieve operational control over US international land and maritime borders, including: (1) systematic border surveillance through more effective use of personnel and technology, such as unmanned aerial vehicles, ground-based sensors, satellites, radar coverage, and cameras. And (2) physical infrastructure enhancements to prevent unlawful border entry and facilitate border access by US Customs and Border Protection, such as additional checkpoints, all weather access roads, and vehicle barriers. Defines operational control as the prevention of all unlawful US entries, including entries by terrorists, other unlawful aliens, instruments of terrorism, narcotics, and other contraband. Directs the Secretary to report annually to Congress on border control progress. Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to direct the Secretary to provide at least two layers of reinforced fencing, installation of additional physical barriers, roads, lighting, cameras, and sensors extending: (1) from ten miles west of the Tecate, California, port of entry to ten miles east of the Tecate, California, port of entry. (2) from ten miles west of the Calexico, California, port of entry to five miles east of the Douglas, Arizona, port of entry. (3) from five miles west of the Columbus, New Mexico, port of entry to ten miles east of El Paso, Texas. (4) from five miles northwest of the Del Rio, Texas, port of entry to five miles southeast of the Eagle Pass, Texas, port of entry. And (5) 15 miles northwest of the Laredo, Texas, port of entry to the Brownsville, Texas, port of entry . States that if an area has an elevation grade exceeding 10 the Secretary may use other means to secure such area, including surveillance and barrier tools. Directs the Secretary to: (1) study and report to the House Committee on Homeland Security and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs on the necessity, feasibility, and economic impact of constructing a state-of-the-art infrastructure security system along the US northern international land and maritime border. And (2) evaluate and report to such Committees on US Customs and Border Protection authority to stop fleeing vehicles that enter the United States illegally, including related training, technology, and equipment reviews.
Combat Veterans Back to Work Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow nongovernmental employers an exemption from, or reduction in, employment taxes for the period beginning after the enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2012, for wages paid to a qualified individual. And (2) allow an employer a business tax credit for each such worker retained by such employer who has been employed for not less than 52 consecutive weeks at a specified wage level. Defines a qualified individual as any individual who: (1) begins employment after June 30, 2011, and before January 1, 2013. (2) is a current member of the National Guard or a reserve component. (3) within 18 months before beginning such employment, returned from a deployment of at least 180 days in support of a contingency operation. And (4) has not been hired to replace another employee unless such other employee separated from employment voluntarily or for cause.
Investing in Student Success Act of 2014 - Declares that income share agreements that meet this Act's requirements are valid, binding, and enforceable contracts that are not subject to state usury laws or state laws regulating assignments of future income. Defines an quot, income share agreementquot. As an agreement between an individual and any other person under which the individual commits to pay a specified percentage of the individual's future income, for a specified period of time, in exchange for payments to or on behalf of such individual for postsecondary education, workforce development, or other purposes. Requires such an agreement to: specify the percentage of future income the individual will be obligated to pay, but it must exempt, at a minimum, the first $10,000 of income each year, specify what will be considered the individual's income. Prevent the individual from obligating more than 15 of the individual's future income toward such agreement. Specify the maximum period that an individual will be obligated to make payments, not to exceed 360 months. And specify the terms and conditions for early termination of an individual's payment period. Requires individuals, before entering into such an agreement, to be provided with a document that clearly and simply discloses: (1) the terms of the agreement, (2) that the agreement is not a debt instrument, (3) that such individual may be required to pay more or less than the amount received, and (4) that an individual's obligations under the agreement are not dischargeable in bankruptcy. Prohibits such agreements from being construed as giving the contract holder any rights over an individual's actions. Excludes payments that are made under an income share agreement from the individual's gross income for tax purposes. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to include income share agreements as qualified education loans, but denies the deduction for interest paid on such loans. Prohibits amounts individuals receive for entering into an income share agreement from being included as income or assets in the computation of the expected family contribution for any program funded under the Higher Education Act of 1965. Amends the Investment Company Act of 1940 to exclude any person from being treated as an investment company if substantially all of that person's business is confined to making income share agreements.
Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness and Indian Peaks Wilderness Expansion Act- Designates certain lands in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, as wilderness and components of the National Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish an alignment line for a trail, which shall be known as the East Shore Trail, located within the East Shore Trail Area and, after establishing the alignment line, to identify the boundaries of such Trail. Provides for the inclusion of the East Shore Trail in the Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness if such Trail has not been constructed and authorized for use by motorized bicycles 25 years after enactment of this Act. Bars, until 25 years after this Act's enactment, the use of motorized vehicles or other motorized machinery not permitted on March 1, 2006, from being allowed in the East Shore Trail Area, except for constructing or maintaining the East Shore Trail, if such construction is authorized by the Secretary. Amends the Indian Peaks Wilderness Area, Arapaho National Recreation Area and the Oregon Islands Wilderness Area Act to provide for a boundary adjustment of the Indian Peaks Wilderness Area and the Arapaho National Recreation Area by: (1) increasing the acreage of the Indian Peaks Wilderness Area. And (2) decreasing the acreage of the Arapaho National Recreation Area.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Continuing Education for Law Enforcement Officers Title II: Law Enforcement Responsibility Provisions Subtitle A: Police Accreditation Subtitle B: Civilian Protection in Cases of Police Misconduct Subtitle C: Law Enorcement Officer's Responsibility Subtitle D: General Provisions Law Enforcement Responsibility and Improvement Act of 1993 - Title I: Continuing Education for Law Enforcement Officers - Directs: (1) each State to pay the Federal share of the cost of awarding scholarships to law enforcement personnel to enable such personnel during non-working hours to enroll in courses, not to exceed a total of 18 credit hours, at an institution of higher education. And (2) the Assistant Attorney General to allocate, from amounts appropriated pursuant to this Act, 80 percent of such funds to States based on the number of law enforcement officers in each State and 20 percent based on a State's shortage of law enforcement personnel and need for assistance. Title II: Law Enforcement Responsibility Provisions - Subtitle A: Police Accreditation - Establishes procedures by which law enforcement agencies of a State, unit of local government, or non-Federal public agency may apply for law enforcement agency accreditation. Grants the Attorney General discretion to provide financial and technical assistance for law enforcement agencies applying for accreditation. Directs the Attorney General to appoint an Accreditation Coordinator to assist such agencies seeking Federal assistance in processing accreditation. Subtitle B: Civilian Protection in Cases of Police Misconduct - Requires that State, local, and public law enforcement agencies have procedures, including specified minimum standards, allowing citizen submission of sworn complaints regarding the action or inaction of a law enforcement agency, its officers, or employees. Specifies that any or all records required pursuant to this Act may be sealed to prevent public disclosure if good cause has been shown by order of a court of competent jurisdiction and if such order is public record and states reasons for sealing. Subtitle C: Law Enforcement Officer's Responsibility - Sets forth minimum standards that apply whenever a law enforcement officer is under formal investigation for alleged malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance of official duty, with a view to possible disciplinary action, demotion, dismissal, suspension, or criminal charges, with exceptions. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) notice of disciplinary action, (2) entitlement to a hearing, (3) fair representation on complaint review boards. And (4) protection from retaliation for exercising rights. Subtitle D: General Provisions - Grants any citizen or law enforcement officer the right to recover damages, including full reinstatement of a law enforcement officer, from any person or agencies which violate the rights established by this title. Specifies that nothing in this title shall be construed to preempt any State law which meets or exceeds the minimum requirements set forth by this title.
Public Infrastructure Modernization Act of 2013 - Requires the Secretary of the Army to approve or disapprove a covered permit application for a public safety project within two years after the application is submitted. Requires an application upon which the Secretary fails to act within such time to be considered under an expedited process, unless the governor of the state in which the project is to be located issues a declaration of emergency with respect to the project. Defines quot, covered permit applicationquot. As an application for a permit to discharge dredge or fill material submitted by a state or municipality under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act . Directs the Secretary to establish such an expedited process, under which the Secretary shall: (1) prepare an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement, (2) weigh the public safety aspects of the project as greater than the environmental costs, and (3) complete consultation with other agencies within six months. Provides that the Secretary, in issuing a permit under the expedited process: (1) may not require mitigation costs in an amount that exceeds 20 of the project's total cost, and (2) may relocate from the project any of the members of a threatened or endangered species of plant or animal that the relevant federal agencies determine would be taken in the course of the project. Authorizes the state or municipality that submitted a covered permit application for a project, if a governor issues a declaration of emergency with respect to the project, to request that: (1) the application be considered under the expedited process. Or (2) the Council on Environmental Quality approve the project or create an alternative, which must be done within 90 days or the application shall be deemed approved and the environmental requirements shall be deemed satisfied.
National Environmental Technologies Agency Act - Establishes the National Environmental Technologies Agency to: (1) coordinate Federal environmental restoration and protection planning. (2) identify areas that need technical solutions to maintain environmental security, are not receiving product-oriented research necessary to meet those needs, and exhibit the greatest promise for the development of solutions. (3) support the development of technology having future application in environmental restoration and protection. (4) coordinate the exchange of technological information relating to environmental restoration and protection between Federal agencies and the private sector, (5) support continuing research and development of advanced technologies. (6) monitor research and development being conducted on advanced technologies by private industry. And (7) promote continuing development of a technological industrial base in the United States. Establishes the Industry and Academia Advisory Council to make recommendations regarding general policy for the Agency. Permits the Agency Administrator to transfer to the domestic private sector technology developed with the support of the Agency if the technology may have potential application in private activities relating to environmental restoration and protection. Provides for dissemination of the results of Agency research. Directs the Administrator, in determining whether to make an award to a joint venture, to consider whether the joint venture has provided for appropriate participation of US small businesses. Entitles the United States to a share of licensing fees and royalty payments made to a joint venture in an amount proportionate to the Federal share of costs incurred. Provides for the return of unspent Federal funds to the Agency if it appears that the recipient is not making satisfactory progress toward successful completion of the project. Entitles the United States, upon dissolution of a joint venture that receives funding under this Act, to a share of the residual assets proportionate to the Federal share of costs. Establishes the Environmental Advanced Research Projects Revolving Fund. Authorizes the use of the Fund to provide financial assistance to entities that serve long-term environmental security needs. Authorizes appropriations.
On-the-Job Training Tax Credit Act of 2015 Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allownbsp. Employers who employ not more than 500 full-time employees during the taxable year an on-the-job training tax credit equal to the lesser of: 50 of the job training programnbsp, expenditures for a full-timenbsp. Employee participating in a qualified training program, or $5,000. Defines quot, qualified training programquot. As a written plan of study and training that is either: (1) an apprenticeship program registered and certified with the Department of Labor under the National Apprenticeship Act. (2) a program licensed, registered, or certified by the workforce investment board or apprenticeship agency or council of a state or administered in compliance with state apprenticeship laws. (3) a program conducted by a vocational or technical education school, community college, industrial or trade training organization, or labor organization. (4) a program which conforms to apprentice training programs developed or administered by an employer trade group or committee. Or (5) an industry-sponsored or -administered program which is clearly identified and commonly recognized. Terminates such credit after 2017.
Safe Drinking Water Assistance Act of 2017 This bill addresses contaminants of emerging concern , which are not regulated under a national primary drinking water regulation and may have an adverse effect on human health. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must review federal efforts to: (1) identify, monitor, and assist in the development of treatment methods for emerging contaminants. And (2) assist states in responding to the human health challenges posed by those contaminants. In addition, the EPA must establish a strategic plan for improving those efforts. The EPA and the Department of Health and Human Services must jointly establish an interagency working group to coordinate federal activities that identify and analyze the public health effects of emerging contaminants. The Office of Science and Technology Policy must establish a National Emerging Contaminant Research Initiative for developing an interagency federal research strategy that specifies and prioritizes the research necessary to improve the identification, analysis, monitoring, and treatment methods of emerging contaminants. Specified federal agencies must make grants for research proposals selected by the initiative as likely to result in significant progress toward achieving the strategy's objectives. The EPA must: (1) report on actions it may take to increase support for states that require testing facilities for emerging contaminants in drinking water samples. And (2) develop a program, based on the report's findings, to provide assistance to eligible states for the testing and analysis of emerging contaminants.
Veterans Accountability Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to report semiannually to the congressional veterans committees on covered travel made by VA employees while on official business. Defines covered travel as travel: (1) outside the United States or its territories, possessions, or territorial waters, if paid for by the VA or another element of the government. Or (2) to any location, if paid for by any person or entity other than the government. Requires each report to include the name of each employee and the destination, purpose, duration, total cost, and identity of a payor other than the government. Directs the Secretary to report each case of reportable infectious disease or condition that occurs at a VA medical facility to the appropriate state entity and to report to the accrediting organization of such facility each case classified as a health-care-associated infection sentinel event. Requires the Secretary, upon a failure to report, to pay to a state the same penalty that a non-federal facility of such state would pay for a failure to report. Allows a state to file a civil action against the VA for the recovery of such amount. Requires the VA Inspector General to investigate and suspend and impose other appropriate administrative disciplinary action against a director of a Veterans Integrated Service Network who has failed to comply with such requirement. Directs the Secretary to prescribe regulations to ensure that any visual recording made by the Secretary of a patient during the course of furnishing care through the VA is carried out only with the full and informed consent of that patient. Allows the Secretary to waive such requirement if the recording is made: (1) upon a determination by a physician or psychologist that the recording is medically necessary or necessary for the patient's safety, (2) pursuant to a warrant or order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or (3) in a public setting where a person would not have a reasonable expectation to privacy and the recording is for general security purposes not particularized to the patient.
Provides a one year extension for providers, State health programs, health plans, and others to implement the administrative simplification standards for electronic transactions and code sets required by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Differentiates these electronic transaction and code set requirements from the medical privacy regulations under HIPAA which remain unaffected.
Amends the United States Grain Standards Act to extend: (1) authority for inspection, weighing, and supervisory fees, supervisory and administrative cost limitations, and the advisory committee. And (2) authorization of appropriations. Authorizes with respect to export port locations of grain: (1) private entity performance of official inspection and weighing activities. And (2) use of more than one designated person or entity to perform such activities.
Veterans Education Flexibility Act This bill declares that, if an individual eligible for educational assistance under the all-volunteer force educational assistance program of the Department of Veterans Affairs is enrolled in an educational institution and the period of entitlement would expire during a quarter or semester of enrollment, the period shall be extended to the end of that period . The bill: (1) repeals the delimiting period for the use of assistance under the post-Vietnam era veterans' educational assistance program , and (2) applies the assistance extension provided under the all-volunteer force educational assistance program to the post-911 veterans' educational assistance program.
Protection From Obamacare Mandates and Congressional Equity Act This bill withholds the salaries of Members of a house of Congress that has not agreed to a budget resolution for FY2018 by April 15, 2017, as required by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Salaries are withheld from April 16, 2017, until the house of Congress agrees to a budget resolution or the last day of the 115th Congress, whichever is earlier. The Inspector General of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), by three days after the President's budget is due, shall: (1) make an annual determination of whether the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the President are in compliance with statutory requirements for the President's annual budget submission to Congress, and (2) provide a written notification of such determination to specified congressional committees. No funds may be appropriated or otherwise be made available from the Treasury for the pay of the Director, Deputy Director, and Deputy Director for Management of the OMB during any period of noncompliance determined by the OPM Inspector General. Such officials may not receive pay for any period of noncompliance at any time after the end of that period.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to: (1) revise and rename title XII the School Facilities Improvement Act. And (2) establish a loan program and a bond guarantee program to assist local educational agencies in the construction, reconstruction, and renovation of public elementary and secondary schools which are 50 years of age or older. Sets forth program eligibility requirements, priorities, preferences, and amounts and conditions of such loans and debt instrument guarantees. Authorizes appropriations.
International Commerce Enhancement Act - Amends the Arms Export Control Act to increase threshold values of major defense equipment or defense articles or related training or other defense services whose transfer or lease to foreign countries would require a presidential certification to Congress. Exempts from specified congressional oversight requirements any such transfers to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) countries, Japan, Australia, or New Zealand.
Marijuana Businesses Access to Banking Act of 2015 This bill provides a safe harbor for depository institutions providing financial services to a marijuana-related legitimate business insofar as it prohibits a federal banking regulator from: (1) terminating or limiting the deposit or share insurance of a depository institution solely because it provides financial services to a marijuana-related legitimate business. Or (2) prohibiting, penalizing, or otherwise discouraging a depository institution from offering such services. A federal banking regulator may neither recommend, motivate, provide incentives, nor encourage a depository institution to refuse to offer financial services to an individual, nor downgrade or cancel financial services offered to an individual, solely because the individual: (1) is a manufacturer, producer, owner or operator of a marijuana-related legitimate business. Or (2) the depository institution was not aware that the individual is the owner or operator of a marijuana-related legitimate business. A federal banking regulator may not take any adverse or corrective supervisory action, solely because of the business involved, on a loan made to an owner or operator of: (1) a marijuana-related legitimate business, or (2) real estate or equipment that is leased to a marijuana-related legitimate business. Immunity from federal criminal prosecution or investigation is granted, subject to certain conditions, to a depository institution that provides financial services to a marijuana-related legitimate business in a state or one of its political subdivisions that allows the cultivation, production, manufacture, sale, transportation, display, dispensing, distribution, or purchase of marijuana. Neither the depository institution nor its officers, directors, nor employees may be held liable under federal law or regulation solely for providing such financial services or further investing income derived from those services. The Department of the Treasury must require any suspicious activity report filed by a financial institution regarding a marijuana-based business to comply with specified guidance of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Directs the Secretary of Defense to pay a specified amount of compensation to those members of the Armed Forces and US civilian employees, or to the surviving spouses of such members and employees, who were captured by Japan and who were used as slave labor during World War II.
Backcountry Landing Strip Access Act - Prohibits the Secretaries of the Interior or Agriculture from taking any action that would permanently close, restrict, or render or declare unserviceable any aircraft landing strip located on land under their jurisdiction unless: (1) the action has been approved by the head of the aviation department of the state in which the landing strip is located. (2) the Secretary publishes notice of the proposed action and provides for a 90-day public comment thereafter. And (3) the Secretary and appropriate state aviation department head have taken into consideration any comments received. Requires the Secretaries to: (1) establish a nationwide policy for governing backcountry aviation issues relating to the management of federal land under the jurisdiction of the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture. And (2) require officials with jurisdiction over such land to adhere to such policy. Requires private and publicly-owned aircraft landing strips acquired by the government to be made available to the public for unrestricted use.
Stop Adolescent Smoking Without Excessive Bureaucracy Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to set forth conditions for the receipt by states of federal substance abuse prevention and treatment grants. Requires such states to: (1) prohibit a minor from purchasing or receiving a tobacco product or possessing a tobacco product in a public place. And (2) require law enforcement agencies to notify a minor's parent, custodian, or guardian whose name and address is reasonably ascertainable of any such violation. Requires such states to require any person engaged in the business of distributing tobacco products at retail to implement a program to: (1) notify its employees that state law prohibits the sale or distribution of tobacco products to minors and the purchase, receipt, or possession in a public place of a tobacco product by a minor. And (2) ensure compliance with such law. Directs such states to provide for a civil monetary penalty or community service for violations. Requires such states to have established goals for reducing the rate of retailer violations. Allows states to use minors to test compliance under certain conditions. Directs such states to certify expenditure of more than 10 of the funds paid to the state as part of the comprehensive settlement of November 1998 against tobacco manufacturers on health programs, tobacco control and cessation activities, or economic development for tobacco regions. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide assistance to states in developing, enacting, and implementing such laws and in setting goals, including by developing model legislative language.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) provide that the amount of fiscal year aviation excise taxes shall match Airport and Airway Trust Fund expenditures. (2) require annual aviation tax rate determinations by a specified date, and (3) establish in such Fund an Annual Reserve Account.
Home Equity Protection Act of 1993 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to require the creditor of each high cost mortgage to provide certain clearly written, conspicuous disclosures regarding the risks associated with such mortgages. Prohibits such mortgages from containing: (1) a prepayment penalty for paying all or part of the principal prior to the date on which the balance is due, (2) certain refinancing fees, (3) balloon payments, (4) negative amortization, (5) certain prepared payments. And (6) specified unfair, deceptive, or evasive acts. Declares that State authority to regulate certain high rate mortgage loans is not preempted by specified Federal statutes. Includes within the creditor's liability for damages for noncompliance with this Act all finance charges and fees paid by the consumer. Empowers the appropriate State attorney general to bring an action to enforce this Act. Subjects an assignee of a high cost mortgage to all the claims and defenses that the consumer could assert against the creditor.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on December 10, 2016. This bill directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to commence actions to improve its process for vetting individuals with access to secure areas of vessels and maritime facilities. These actions shall include: conducting a comprehensive risk analysis of security threat assessment procedures, including identifying procedures that need additional internal controls as well as best practices for quality assurance at every stage of the assessment, implementing such internal controls and best practices, improving fraud detection techniques. Updating the guidance provided to Trusted Agents regarding the vetting process and related regulations. Finalizing a manual for such agents and adjudicators on the vetting process. And establishing quality controls to ensure consistent procedures to review adjudication decisions and terrorism vetting decisions. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) shall commission a national laboratory, a university-based center within the Science and Technology Directorate's centers of excellence network, or a qualified federally-funded research and development center to conduct an assessment of the effectiveness of the Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) Program at enhancing security and reducing security risks for maritime facilities and vessels that pose a high risk of being involved in a transportation security incident. The assessment shall review: the credentialing process, the process for renewing TWIC applications, and the security value of the TWIC program. If the assessment identifies a deficiency in effectiveness of the TWIC Program, DHS shall submit to Congress a corrective action plan that: responds to assessment findings and includes an implementation plan with benchmarks, and shall be considered in any DHS rulemaking with respect to the TWIC Program. The DHS Inspector General must review and report on the corrective action plan.
Amends specified Federal laws to authorize appropriations for: (1) the US contribution to the thirteenth replenishment of the International Development Association. (2) the US contribution to the seventh replenishment of the Asian Development Fund. And (3) the US contribution to the ninth replenishment of the African Development Fund. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US Executive Director at each multilateral development institution to inform such institution of specified US policy goals . Requires each institution to: (1) post on its website an electronic version of Board of Directors meeting minutes within 60 days after any such meeting, with material deemed too sensitive for public distribution redacted. (2) keep a written transcript or electronic recording of each Board meeting and preserve it for at least ten years. (3) make available to the public 15 days before Board consideration all public sector loan documents, country assistance strategies, sector strategies, and sector policies prepared by the institution and presented for Board endorsement or approval. (4) post on its website an annual report of statistical summaries and case studies of fraud and corruption cases pursued by its investigations unit. And (5) require any health, education, or poverty-focused loan, credit, grant, document, policy, or strategy prepared by it to include specific outcome and output indicators to measure results, and that such indicators and results be published periodically during execution, and at the completion, of the project or program. Urges the Secretary no later than 60 days after a meeting of the Board of a multilateral development institution to provide for publication on the Department of the Treasury's website of the institution's written statements regarding inspection mechanism claims and cases.
Preserving Patient Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Hospitals Act of 2005 - Prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services, during the period between July 1, 2005, and the date two years after the enactment of this Act, from: (1) requiring a compliance rate, pursuant to the criterion used to determine whether a hospital or hospital unit is an inpatient rehabilitation facility, that is greater than the 50 percent compliance threshold that became effective on July 1, 2004. (2) changing the designation of any inpatient rehabilitation facility in compliance with the 50 percent threshold. Or (3) conducting medical necessity review of inpatient rehabilitation facilities using any guidelines other than the national criteria established in the Medicare Benefits Policy Manual. Directs the Secretary to establish procedures for: (1) making any necessary retroactive adjustment to restore the status of a facility as an inpatient rehabilitation facility as a result of this Act. (2) making any necessary payments to inpatient rehabilitation facilities based on such adjustment for discharges occurring on or after July 1, 2005, and before enactment of this Act. And (3) developing and implementing an appeals process that provides for expedited review of any adjustment to the status of a facility as an inpatient rehabilitation facility made during such period Directs the Secretary to establish the National Advisory Council on Medical Rehabilitation to provide advice and recommendations to: (1) Congress and the Secretary concerning the coverage of rehabilitation services under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. And (2) appropriate federal agencies on how best to utilize available research funds and authorities focused on medical rehabilitation research.
Home-Based Health Services Training and Employment Act of 2012 - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a pilot program to make grants on a competitive basis to eligible entities for the training of public housing residents as home health aides and providers of home-based health services to enable them to provide covered home-based health services to residents of: (1) public housing who are elderly, disabled, or both. And (2) federally-assisted rental housing who are elderly, disabled, or both, subject to criteria that the Secretary may establish. Authorizes the use of grant funds: (1) to establish or maintain and carry out a program to train public housing residents to provide covered home-based health care services to elderly and disabled public housing residents and to elderly and disabled residents of federally-assisted rental housing, (2) for the transportation and child care expenses of public housing residents in training, and (3) for the administrative expenses of carrying out such a program. Provides that for any resident of public housing who is trained as a home health aide or as a provider of home-based health services under the program, any income received for providing covered home-based health services shall apply towards eligibility for benefits under federal housing programs as specified, based on length of time following completion of the training.
Second Chance Voting Rights Act of 2006 - Declares that the right of a US citizen to vote in any election for federal office shall not be denied or abridged because that individual has been convicted of a criminal offense. Applies this Act to a convicted individual upon his or her unconditional release from incarceration and completion of his or her sentence, including parole. Provides for enforcement of, and remedies for, violations of this Act. Prohibits construing this Act to prohibit states from affording the right to vote in any federal election on less restrictive terms.
Accuracy in Medicare Physician Payment Act of 2013 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish and appoint an expert outside advisory panel for purposes of providing oversight to the processes relating to valuation of physicians' services.
No Child Left Behind Reform Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to revise certain requirements which were added by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, including ones relating to: (1) adequate yearly progress (AYP), (2) academic assessment and local educational agency and school improvement, (3) school choice and supplemental services options. And (4) teacher qualifications. Allows schools to be given credit for performing well on measures other than test scores when calculating student achievement. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to State educational agencies to: (1) develop or increase the capacity of data systems for accountability purposes. And (2) subgrants to increase the capacity of local educational agencies to upgrade, create, or manage information databases for the purpose of measuring AYP. Allows schools to target school choice and supplemental services to the students who are members of specified types of groups that fail to make AYP. Requires placement and service in the least restrictive environment for students who receive services under the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act who use an option to transfer under ESEA. Revises the definition of highly qualified teacher to authorize States to: (1) use a generalist exam for middle school teachers. And (2) issue certificates that qualify teachers to teach a number of subjects in social studies or in science.
Enhanced Veteran Healthcare Experience Act of 2011 - Expresses the sense of Congress that better health care can be provided to veterans at little-to-no increased cost by revising the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) fee-based system for hospital care and medical services in non-VA facilities. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide certain enrolled veterans with health services that are provided by a non-VA provider with whom the Secretary enters into a contract pursuant to this Act if the Secretary determines that VA facilities are incapable of furnishing such services because of: (1) geographical inaccessibility. Or (2) a lack of required personnel, resources, or ability at VA facilities. Authorizes the Secretary to enter a contract with a non-VA provider that: (1) demonstrates the ability to provide non-VA health care services to veterans. (2) meets or exceeds credentialing standards of the VA and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission. (3) has coordinators who help veterans make, confirm, and keep medical appointments, a system that allows veterans to file complaints, and a demonstrated ability to respond to potential quality indicators and patient safety events. And (4) has the ability to process claims from other providers in its network, bill third parties, and transmit received amounts to the Secretary. Sets forth requirements concerning the VA's coordination with non-VA providers, performance metrics, and bonus payments for exceeding such metrics.
Prohibits sentencing to death or putting to death any person for any violation of Federal law. Directs that any person sentenced to death before the date of this Act's enactment for any such violation serve a sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole.
Surface Transportation Board Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 1999 - Amends Federal transportation law to declare that it is US rail transportation policy to: (1) encourage and promote effective competition within the rail industry. And (2) discourage artificial barriers to interchange and car supply which can impede competition between shortline, regional, and Class I carriers and block effective rail service to shippers. Extends from 30 days to 60 days the period of time that the Surface Transportation Board may direct the handling, routing, and movement of rail carrier traffic during emergency situations involving congestion of traffic, unauthorized cessation of operations, or other failure of traffic movement. Directs the Board to: (1) review rules and procedures applicable to rate complaints and other complaints filed with it by small shippers. And (2) identify, and reduce or eliminate, any such rules or procedures that are unduly burdensome to them. And (3) notify specified congressional committees that such changes in the rules and procedures are appropriate. Prohibits the Board from considering evidence of product or geographic competition when making market dominance determinations in rail rate proceedings. Amends US rail transportation policy to eliminate a requirement that the Board make a determination with respect to what are adequate revenues for rail carriers in the promotion of a safe and efficient rail transportation system. Requires the Board, in order to facilitate the process by which it gives due consideration to the policy that rail carriers shall earn adequate revenues, to convene a three-member panel of outside experts to make recommendations as to an appropriate methodology by which the adequacy of a carrier's revenues should be considered. Provides for situations in which a shipper and rail carrier enter into a contract for transportation that requires a through route with the connecting carrier and there is no reasonable alternative route that can be constructed without the connecting carrier' participation. Requires a connecting carrier in such a situation, upon request, to establish a through route and a contract rate for such transportation unless the connecting carrier shows that: (1) the interchange requested is not operationally feasible. Or (2) the through route would significantly impair the connecting carrier's ability to serve its other traffic. Requires contract rate complaints to be limited to the rate that applies to the portion of the through route not governed by the contract. Directs the Board to promulgate regulations adopting a simplified dispute resolution mechanism that will expedite the arbitration of disputes before the Board . Requires the Board, in proceedings which involve the merger or control of at least two Class I railroads, to consider, among other things, means and methods to encourage and expand competition between and among rail carriers in the affected region or the national rail system. Authorizes the Board to impose conditions to encourage and expand such competition, provided that they do not cause substantial harm to the benefits of the transaction to the affected carriers or the public. Authorizes the Board to grant temporary access relief to a rail carrier to through routes or terminal facilities in order to remedy inadequate rail service. Excludes agreements affecting only the transportation of household goods from the requirement that Board approval of route and rate agreements between motor carriers expire within three years of such approval unless renewed. Authorizes appropriations. Requires Senate confirmation with respect to the appointment of the Board Chairman.
Discredit Eternal Listing Inequality of Species Takings Act or the DELIST Act - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to treat a limited listed species as extinct for purposes of this Act upon the expiration of the 15-year period beginning on the date it is determined by the Secretary of the Interior to be an endangered species, unless the Secretary publishes a finding that: (1) there has been a substantial increase in the population of the species during that period. Or (2) the continued listing of the species does not impose any economic hardship on communities located in the range of the species. Defines limited listed species as any species that is listed as an endangered species for which it is not reasonably possible to determine whether the species has been extirpated from the range of the species that existed on the date the species was listed because not all individuals of the species were identified at the time of such listing.
Border Patrol Pay Reform Act of 2013 - Sets forth additionalnbsp. Requirements relating to the rates of pay and terms of employmentnbsp. For US Border Patrol agents . Requires Border Patrol agents to elect each year to: (1) be assigned to either a specifiednbsp. Level one or level two border patrol rate of pay governing regular rates of paynbsp, and overtime work requirements,nbsp, or (2) decline both levels. nbsp. Expresses the sense of Congress that US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) should ensure that not more than 10 of agents stationed at a location decline to be assigned to either the level 1 or level 2 border patrol rate of pay. Empowers CBP, without limitation, to require agents to perform overtime work in accordance with agency needs, including if needed in the event of a local or national emergency.
Business Checking Freedom Act of 2003 - Amends Federal law to authorize interest-bearing transaction accounts for all businesses, permitting up to 24 transfers per month to another account of the owner in the same institution. Authorizes the payment of interest by a Federal reserve bank at least quarterly on balances maintained there on behalf of a depository institution. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to revise the ratio of reserves a depository institution must maintain against its transaction accounts, permitting a ratio of zero. Directs the Federal Reserve banks in FY 2003 through 2007 to transfer to the Board for transfer to the Secretary of the Treasury, for deposit in the general fund, additional surplus funds equal to the net cost of their interest payments to depository institutions.
Business Relief and Incentives for Small Entrepreneurs Act of 2007 or the Business RAISE Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow accelerated depreciation of qualified retail improvement property placed in service before January 1, 2008. (2) allow new improvements to restaurant property to qualify for accelerated depreciation. And (3) expand the eligibility of certain disabled veterans for employment under the work opportunity tax credit.
Directs the Attorney General to provide for the granting of posthumous citizenship, as of September 12, 2001, to certain nonculpable aliens or noncitizen nationals otherwise eligible for naturalization who died as a result of the hijackings of four airliners, the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, or as a result of injuries sustained while assisting in the emergency response to the events of September 11, 2001.
Home Lead Safety Tax Credit Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide owners of residential properties built in the United States before 1978 with a tax credit for lead-based paint abatement costs performed by a certified lead abatement contractor .
Energy-Efficient Cool Roof Jobs Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to classify any qualified energy-efficient cool roof replacement property as 20-year property for depreciation purposes. Defines qualified energy-efficient cool roof replacement property as any roof system that: (1) is placed in service above conditioned or semiheated space on an eligible commercial building, (2) has a slope equal to or less than 2:12 , (3) replaces an existing roof system, and (4) includes insulation meeting specified standards andnbsp. A primary roof covering that has a cool roof surface. Requires the adjustment for depreciation to the earnings and profits of a real estate investment trust for any taxable year, in the case ofnbsp. Such property, to be determined under the alternative depreciation method, except that the recovery period shall be 20 years.
Microenterprise and Asset Development Act - Amends part A (AFDC) of title IV of the Social Security Act (SSA) to exclude from AFDC eligibility determinations certain income and resources that are to be used for education, training, and employability purposes. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report to the Congress on a revision of the AFDC limit on automobiles in order to increase the employability of AFDC recipients. Provides for State agency exclusion from AFDC eligibility determinations of certain resources related to microenterprise initiatives by AFDC recipients towards self-sufficiency. Requires State agencies to ensure that caseworkers advise AFDC recipients of the option for microenterprises. Provides for the inclusion of microenterprise training and activities in the JOBS program under SSA title IV part F .
Directs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) facilitate the development of guidelines and a program of technical assistance and grants that will set priorities for the preservation of the Route 66 corridor. (2) designate National Park Service (NPS) officials to perform the functions of the Cultural Resource Programs support cultural resources related to the corridor. (3) support efforts of State and local public and private persons, nonprofit Route 66 preservation entities, Indian tribes, State Historic Preservation Offices, and entities in the States to preserve the corridor by providing technical assistance, participating in cost-sharing programs, and making grants. (4) act as a clearinghouse for communication among such parties and Federal, State, and local agencies. And (5) assist the States in determining the appropriate form of, and establishing and supporting, a non-Federal entity or entities to perform the functions of the Cultural Resource Programs after those programs are terminated. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) enter into cooperative agreements. (2) accept donations of funds, equipment, supplies, and services as appropriate. (3) provide cost-share grants for up to 50 percent of projects for the preservation of the corridor and information about existing cost-share opportunities and technical assistance in the corridor's historic preservation and interpretation. And (4) coordinate, promote, and stimulate research by other persons and entities regarding the corridor. Requires the Secretary: (1) to provide assistance in the preservation of the corridor that is compatible with the idiosyncratic nature of the highway. (2) not to prepare or require an overall management plan, but to cooperate with public and private entities in developing local preservation plans to guide efforts to protect the most important or representative resources of the corridor. (3) to develop a technical assistance program in the preservation and interpretation of the corridor, including guidelines for setting priorities for preservation needs. And (4) to coordinate a program of historic research, curation, preservation strategies, and collection of oral and video histories of events that occurred along the corridor designed for continuing use after the Cultural Resource Programs are terminated. Authorizes appropriation.
International Clean Development Technology Fund Act of 2008 - Establishes in the Treasury the International Clean Development Technology Fund to provide assistance to qualified entities for: (1) capacity building programs such as greenhouse gas emissions measuring and related technology and policy assessments, and (2) greenhouse gas emissions mitigation in eligible countries.
National Forest Good Neighbor Act of 2017 This bill amends the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 to authorize the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to enter into good neighbor agreements with states to carry out specified similar and complementary forest, rangeland, and watershed restoration services on certain National Forest System (NFS) lands. The bill makes requirements under the National Forest Management Act of 1976 regarding the advertisement of timber sales on NFS lands and the designation and supervision of the harvesting of trees, portions of trees, or forest products on NFS lands inapplicable to the restoration services authorized by this bill. USDA shall provide or approve all silviculture prescriptions and marking guides to be applied on NSF land in any timber sales project conducted pursuant to this bill. Any decision required to be made by USDA under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 concerning any such services shall not be delegated to any state.
Bond Transparency Act of 2014 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to define a quot, riskless principal transactionquot. As any transaction the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) identifies as one, but primarily one in which a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer acts on a customer order to buy or sell either municipal securities or corporate debt securities while also acting as principal for its own account in order to complete the transaction. Requires a broker or dealer, at or before completion of the transaction, to make a markup disclosure in writing to the customer of the difference between either: (1) the customer's purchase price and the broker or dealer's purchase price. Or (2) the customer's sale price and the broker or dealer's sale price. Subjects riskless principal transactions in corporate debt securities to the same markup disclosure requirements as those for riskless principal transactions in municipal securities.
Monuments Protection Act Directs the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture to enter into an agreement with a state, the District of Columbia, a federally recognized Indian tribe, a US territory or possession, or a political subdivision of such an entity that offers to assume activities to resume or continue operations and public access to any covered unit during any period when those activities would not otherwise be carried out because: (1) there is a lapse in available federal funds as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution, or (2) there are insufficient federal funds to operate such unit as a result of a failure of the federal government to make sufficient funds available. Defines a quot, covered unitquot. To mean: public lands, units of the National Park System, units of the National Wildlife Refuge System, federally owned open air monuments and memorials, units of the National Forest System, and federally owned roads and off ramps on all such lands. Requires Interior and USDA to reimburse such an entity once funds are made available for activities carried out by such entity.
Transit in Parks Act - Directs the Secretaries of the Interior and Transportation to establish and administer a transit in parks program to encourage and promote the development of mass transportation systems in the National Park System for improving visitor mobility and enjoyment, reducing pollution and congestion, and protecting park resources. Sets forth requirements for such program, including the development of transportation plans for units of the National Park System and the making of grants and contracts for the planning, engineering, design, and evaluation of mass transportation projects in such units and for capital projects and investment.
Distributed Power Hybrid Energy Act - Directs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) develop and transmit to Congress a distributed power hybrid systems strategy. And (2) implement and integrate such strategy with other activities of the Department of Energy Office of Distributed Energy Resources.
CJ's Home Protection Act of 2008 - Amends the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 to revise federal standards for manufactured homes to require each such home to be installed with a weather radio: (1) capable of broadcasting emergency information relating to local weather conditions. (2) equipped with a tone alarm and Specific Alert Message Encoding, or SAME technology. And (3) compliant with the Consumer Electronics Association (CEA) Standard 2009-A Performance Specification for Public Alert Receivers . Shields from common law civil liability: (1) manufacturers, installers, or retailers of manufactured homes for any aspect of the installation, furnishing, function, operation, performance, capabilities, or utilization of such a weather radio. And (2) the operator, owner, or employee of a manufactured home community, or the home manufacturer, with respect to the functionality of such a radio owing to any reminder, assistance, or instructions the community operator provides. Exempts modular homes from such installation standards. Requires the consensus committee established under such Act to develop and submit to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development a proposed standard for installed weather radios. Requires the Secretary to study and report to specified congressional committees on conditioning the applicability of the weather radio installation requirement on the geographic location at which a manufactured home is placed.
Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act of 2008 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require reports on federal mandates to include: (1) an assessment of the prospective costs of carrying out changes to a condition of federal assistance being imposed on participating state, local, or tribal governments and how these costs compare with the funds being authorized. (2) for reauthorizations, an assessment of the additional costs of changes in those conditions compared with the changes in funding being authorized. (3) in cases where a bill or joint resolution provides necessary sums, an estimate of that amount. And (4) an identification and description of any reasonably foreseeable indirect costs to such governments or the private sector from implementing the federal mandate. Repeals a provision excluding independent regulatory agencies from reporting requirements. Makes requirements under this Act applicable to general notice of any final rule that includes such a mandate.
Supporting Emergency Responders Volunteer Efforts Act of 2009 or the SERVE Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a $1,000 refundable tax credit for individuals who are bona fide volunteer members of a qualified volunteer emergency response organization who provide firefighting and prevention services, emergency medical services, and ambulance services.
Reward Innovation in America Act - Establishes a National Innovation Prizes Board in the Department of Commerce, which shall develop and administer a program of competitions to award innovation prizes to eligible individuals and entities to advance the research, development, and commercial application of innovative technologies. Requires the Secretary of Commerce to submit a plan for implementing such program. Requires that there be two categories of prizes: (1) 21st Century Innovation Prizes, which shall be awarded in multiple competitions in different research areas. And (2) Innovate America Grand Challenge Prizes, which shall be awarded in large, highly complex, and expensive competitions that are held every two to four years and address research objectives well beyond the current state of the art and that are intended to become integral to major changes in complex socio-technological systems. Requires the Board to determine the amount of each prize for each competition. Instructs the Board to: (1) advertise competitions widely to encourage broad participation. And (2) publish notices of competitions in the Federal Register. Authorizes the Board to enter into an agreement with a private, nonprofit organization to administer competitions. Specifies that prizes awarded under the program shall consist of: (1) funds authorized to be appropriated pursuant to this Act. And (2) any funds raised by the administering entity to pay for administrative costs of competitions and to contribute to cash prizes. Requires the Secretary to submit annual reports describing the activities of the program.
NOAA Corps Disestablishment Act - Converts to civilian service each conversion-eligible officer in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Corps of Commissioned Officers who has signed a conversion agreement and the position to which the officer is assigned. Provides for a conversion benefit, Thrift Savings Plan eligibility, and credit for unused leave. Authorizes appropriations to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund equal to the Federal Employee Retirement System supplemental liability created by granting service credit. Mandates establishment of additional NOAA civilian positions. Disestablishes the Corps as of October 1, 1997. Provides for noncompetitive appointment eligibility in the Department of Commerce. Separates conversion-eligible officers who do not sign a conversion agreement, with eligibility for separation pay. Amends the Coast and Geodetic Survey Commissioned Officers Act of 1948 to remove dollar caps on separation pay. Provides for retirement eligibility and terms. Deems Corps service to have been active service in the Navy. Provides for the administration of retired pay, survivor, and other benefits. Makes related amendments to Federal law provisions relating to the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund. Mandates a final determination, based on a physical examination, regarding each officer on the temporarily disabled retired list. Repeals: (1) the Coast and Geodetic Survey Commissioned Officers Act of 1948 and numerous other Federal Acts and provisions related to the Corps. And (2) provisions authorizing extra compensation to members of vessel crews when assigned duties as instrument observer or recorder and to other Federal agencies' employees while observing tides or currents or tending seismographs or magnetographs. Authorizes the establishment, elimination, or reorganization of any office in NOAA as necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act. Mandates a report to the Congress describing any such actions.
Quality of Life for Women Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to educate health professionals and the public on bladder and bowel dysfunction , pelvic organ prolapse, and other pelvic floor disorders. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Director should establish a national registry for surgical treatment of such disorders. Requires the Directors of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development to: (1) expand and intensify the activities of such Institutes with respect to women's pelvic floor disorders, including developing proposals for research on such disorders. And (2) provide for the continuing operation of the Urinary Incontinence Treatment Network and the Clinical Trials Network for Female Pelvic Disorders. Commends such Institutes for their support of such Networks and such Networks for their research toward improving women's pelvic health. Expresses the sense of Congress as to efforts that such Institutes should undertake, including increasing their research, recruiting established scientists, and developing a national data registry and tissue bank of people suffering from incontinence.
Economic Mobility for Productive Livelihoods and Expanding Opportunity Act of 2016 or the EMPLEO Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to require every employer to pay to each of his or her eligible Puerto Rican employees who in any workweek are engaged in commerce and who receive qualified wage subsidy payments minimum wages of $5.00 an hour, determined without regard to those wage subsidy payments. The bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to treat certain employers who make qualified wage subsidy payments to eligible Puerto Rico employees as having paid payroll taxes in an amount equal to the wage subsidy payment. An ldquo, eligible Puerto Rico employeerdquo. Is any individual who: (1) is a US citizen, (2) has a Social Security number, and (3) certifies to the employer that he or she is a resident of Puerto Rico and intends to remain a resident for at least the next six months. A ldquo, qualified wage subsidy paymentrdquo. Is a payment equal to 50 of the excess of: (1) the median hourly wage for Puerto Rico , over (2) the hourly wage paid to the eligible Puerto Rico employee. The bill sets forth reporting requirements for participating employers and requirements for determining the median hourly wage for Puerto Rico after 2018.
Acid Deposition and Ozone Control Act of 1997 - Amends the Clean Air Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to add to the single ozone transport region any State that contributed at least four parts per billion to ozone via aerial transport to the ozone level of any noncompliant area in the region for any one of the second through tenth worst ozone days that occurred during the previous ten years. Applies to any State so added, not later than 18 months after enactment of this Act, any control measure adopted under the ozone transport regions provisions. Requires the Administrator to promulgate regulations requiring nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions reductions in any State added under this Act to one-third of 1990 levels by the year 2003.
Small Business Review Panel Technical Amendments Act of 1999 (sic) - Amends Federal provisions concerning the promulgation of Federal rules to allow representatives of small entities that may be affected to make an oral presentation to a review panel for a proposed rule. Requires the head of an agency covered by the rule to print the report of the review panel in the Federal Register within 120 days after receiving it or as part of the publication of the notice of proposed rulemaking.
Border Security and Enforcement Act of 1997 - Establishes in the Department of Justice (DOJ) the Office of Enforcement and Border Affairs, to be headed by a Director. Transfers from the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) to the Director all functions, personnel, infrastructure, and funding of the following programs: (1) the Border Patrol program, (2) the detention and deportation program, (3) the intelligence program, (4) the investigations program. And (5) the inspections program. Transfers DOJ personnel and assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and INS funds in connection with such functions to the Office, for allocation by the Director. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) continuation of proceedings and suits and nonabatement of actions in connection with transferred functions. And (2) delegation and assignment and authority of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget regarding functions transferred.
Amends the Small Business Act to establish within the Small Business Administration (SBA) an Associate Administrator for Telecommunications Finance to supervise and manage SBA financing in the area of telecommunications. Authorizes the Associate Administrator to approve SBA loan guarantees with respect to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) spectrum licenses acquired in the secondary market. Establishes a Telecommunications Finance Office. Establishes the Telecommunications Spectrum Installment Loan Program to: (1) make direct loans to qualified telecommunications borrowers (borrowers) for the acquisition of spectrum licenses through FCC auction. And (2) guarantee loans to borrowers for telecommunications equipment and working capital in connection with spectrum license acquisitions. Establishes the Telecommunications Accelerated Certified Lender Program for the guarantee by certified lenders of loans made to borrowers for: (1) the acquisition of spectrum licenses through either FCC auction or the secondary market. And (2) telecommunications equipment and working capital in connection with spectrum license acquisitions. Requires certified lenders to be insured depository institutions approved by the SBA. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to: (1) establish the Telecommunications Loan Guarantee Fund for financing loans authorized under this Act. And (2) require the FCC, with respect to FCC spectrum auctions, to accept from a borrower a letter of credit in lieu of any upfront payment or other earnest money required by FCC regulation.
Guam War Claims Review Commission Act - Establishes the Guam War Claims Review Commission to: (1) review the facts and circumstances surrounding the implementation and administration of the Guam Meritorious Claims Act and its effectiveness in addressing the war claims of American nationals residing on Guam between December 8, 1941, and July 21, 1944. (2) determine after review of documents and oral testimony whether there was parity of war claims paid to Guam residents under such Act as compared with awards made to other similarly affected US citizens or nationals in territory occupied by the Japanese during World War II. And (3) advise on any additional compensation that may be necessary to compensate the people of Guam for death, personal injury, forced labor, forced march, and internment. Authorizes appropriations.
SMA Treatment Acceleration Act - Requires the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to upgrade and unify existing spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) clinical trial sites to establish a national clinical trials network for SMA. Requires the Director of NIH to ensure that such network: (1) conducts coordinated, multisite, clinical trials of pharmacological approaches to the treatment of SMA. And (2) rapidly and effectively disseminates scientific findings to the field. Requires the Director of NIH to: (1) establish an SMA data coordinating center. And (2) expand and intensify NIH programs with respect to preclinical translation research and medicinal chemistry related to SMA. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to enhance and provide ongoing support to the existing SMA patient registry to provide for expanded research on the epidemiology of SMA. Directs the Secretary to ensure the collection and analysis of longitudinal data related to individuals of all ages with SMA. Requires the Secretary to establish the Spinal Muscular Atrophy Coordinating Committee to: (1) coordinate activities across NIH and with other federal health programs and activities relating to SMA. And (2) conduct a study to identify barriers to the development of drugs for treating SMA and similar genetic disorders. Requires the Director of NIH to establish a trans-National Institutes of Health cooperative research initiative on SMA to ensure the success of the SMA projects led by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. Requires the Secretary to submit recommendations to Congress to improve and expand on incentives provided under the Orphan Drug Act and related statutes to promote SMA drug development.
Elgin Stafford Mental Illness Information Disclosure Act of 2012 or Elgin's Law - Requires a health care professional to disclose to a parent of a covered individual being treated for a mental illness any information regarding the mental illness and treatment which may be useful for the parent's appropriate involvement with the treatment. Excludes exceptional circumstances where parental involvement would be counter-productive to treatment. Makes such a disclosure permissible under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) as not requiring consent of the covered individual. Applies this Act to a minor child, an uninsured adult under age 26, or an adult under age 26 who is included as a dependent under the parent's health benefits coverage.
Medical Device User Fee Stabilization Act of 2005 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to adjust medical device user fees . Repeals the fee revenue target amounts for FY2006 and FY2007. Eliminates the inflation, workload, compensating, and final year adjustments of revenues used for setting fees. Sets the premarket application fee for devices for FY2006 and FY2007. Allows the Secretary of Health and Human Services to use unobligated carryover balances from fees collected in previous fiscal years with notice to the appropriate congressional committees. Increases the annual gross receipts or sales threshold below which businesses are eligible for reduced fees or a waiver of fees by the Secretary. Removes the prohibition against the Secretary assessing fees unless certain cumulative fee revenues were met for FY2003 through 2006. Requires the Secretary to include in annual reports to Congress: (1) information on the number and total amount of fees paid for each different type of application or notification from small businesses. And (2) a certification that the amounts obligated for the performance of functions other than the review of device applications is not less than such amount for FY2002 multiplied by the adjustment factor. Deems as branded any reprocessed single use device unless it identifies the manufacturer, but allows such information to be provided by a detachable label intended to be affixed to the medical record of a patient.
Marriage Penalty Relief Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) to provide that the basic standard deduction on a joint return shall be equal to 200 percent of the dollar amount of an individual who is not married. Makes the maximum taxable income in the lowest joint bracket equal to double the maximum taxable income in the lowest single filer bracket. Increases the earned income credit phaseout amount on a joint return by $3,000.
Pro-Growth Budgeting Act of 2012 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (CBA) to require the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to prepare for each major bill or resolution reported by any congressional committee , as a supplement to CBO cost estimates, a macroeconomic impact analysis of the budgetary effects of such legislation for the 10-fiscal year period beginning with the first fiscal year for which such estimate was prepared and each of the next three 10-fiscal year periods. Defines major bill or resolution as any bill or resolution whose budgetary effects, for any fiscal year in the period for which a CBO cost estimate is prepared, is estimated to be greater than .25 of the current projected US gross domestic product (GDP) for that fiscal year. Requires the analysis to describe: (1) the potential economic impact of the bill or resolution on major economic variables, including real GDP, business investment, the capital stock, employment, interest rates, and labor supply. And (2) the potential fiscal effects of the measure, including any estimates of revenue increases or decreases resulting from changes in GDP. Requires the analysis to specify the economic and econometric models used, sources of data, relevant data transformations, as well as any explanation necessary to make the models comprehensible to academic and public policy analysts. Amends CBA to require the CBO Director, after the President's budget submission and in addition to the baseline projections, to report a supplemental projection to the congressional budget committees, assuming extension of current tax policy for the fiscal year commencing on October 1 of that year, with a supplemental projection for the 10-fiscal year period beginning with that fiscal year, again assuming the extension of current tax policy. Defines current tax policy as the tax policy in statute as of December 31 of the current year, assuming: (1) the budgetary effects of measures extending the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 and the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. (2) the continued application of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) as in effect for taxable years beginning in 2011, with a specified assumption for taxable years beginning after 2011. And (3) the budgetary effects of extending the estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer tax provisions of title III of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. Requires CBO to report to such committees, on or before July 1 of each year, the Long-Term Budget Outlook for: (1) the fiscal year commencing on October 1 of that year, and (2) at least the ensuing 40 fiscal years.
Workplace Fairness Act of 1996 - Prohibits employment discrimination on any basis other than job performance by covered entities, including an employing authority to which specified provisions of the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 or the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 apply. Prohibits quotas. Declares that this Act does not apply to religious organizations . Provides for enforcement. Disallows State immunity. Makes the United States liable for all remedies to the same extent as a private person. Allows recovery of attorney's fees. Requires posting notices for employees and applicants. Sets forth factors that pertain to job performance, including ability and willingness to comply with performance requirements , any use of a drug or of alcohol that may adversely affect job performance, any conviction of an offense for which a term of imprisonment exceeding one year could have been imposed, and the ability to work well with others.
Child Modeling Exploitation Prevention Act - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to prohibit an employer from employing a child model in exploitive child modeling. Defines exploitive child modeling as modeling involving the use of a child under 17 years old for financial gain without the purpose of marketing a product or service other than the child's image, regardless of whether the employment relationship of the child is direct or indirect, contractual or non-contractual, or is termed that of an independent contractor. Provides that such term does not apply to an image which, taken as a whole, has serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. Sets penalties for violations. Includes employment of a minor in violation of such provision within the definition of oppressive child labor. Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit displaying or offering to provide the image of an individual engaged in exploitive child modeling, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, with the intent to make a financial gain, except with respect to an image which has serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
Consumer and Community Choice in Access Act of 1999 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to authorize the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to require cable operators that provide interconnection with the Internet using that cable system's facilities to offer such interconnection on terms and conditions that are fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory and to provide such interconnection with the facilities and equipment of any Internet service provider, whether or not affiliated with such cable operator. Directs a cable operator to designate channel capacity for the provision of other cable services . Provides that, until the FCC establishes open access or interconnection standards and obligations for cable providers, a service that provides high-speed data service and that seeks to obtain channel capacity for such service may be treated as seeking channel capacity for a commercial use. Subjects a telecommunications service that is provided by a cable system to Federal regulation as a common carrier service.
Amends Federal aviation law to require that a criminal history record check be done for any individual applying for a position as a security screener, a screener supervisor, or that will allow unescorted access to an aircraft or a secured area of an airport. Allows such persons during the first three years to work temporarily without a fingerprint check for 45 days during the first two years of such three year period, and for 30 days during the third year of such period. Requires all new employees, after the temporary periods, to have a fingerprint check before beginning work. Declares that an employment investigation shall not be required for an individual if a criminal history record check is completed before the individual begins working. Sets forth specified exceptions to the requirements of this Act. Lists additional crimes in the past ten years preceding an employment investigation for which an individual will be barred from employment in a position as a security screener or a position that will allow unescorted access. Directs the Administrator to issue a final rule on the certification of screening companies. Establishes new minimum standards for the training of security screeners. Directs the Administrator to work with air carriers and airports to ensure that computer-based training facilities intended for use by security screeners at an airport are conveniently located and easily accessible. Requires each airport operator, air carrier, and security screening company to include a list of sanctions published by the Administrator in its security program for use as guidelines in the discipline of its employees for infractions of airport access control requirements. Requires the Administrator to work with airport operators and air carriers to improve airport access controls by January 31, 2001. Directs the Administrator to take certain actions to ensure physical security at FAA staffed facilities that house air traffic control systems. Requires the Administrator to report to specified congressional committees on progress made in improving the physical security of air traffic control facilities, including the percentage of such facilities that have been granted physical security accreditation. Directs the Administrator to issue an amendment to air carrier security programs to require a manual process which will increase the number of checked bags that are selected for screening by explosive detection systems. Amends the Wendell H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century to require the Secretary of Transportation to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a certain airport noise study. Requires the National Academy of Sciences to report the results of such study to the Secretary. Authorizes appropriations. Revises the total number of members of the Federal Aviation Management Advisory Council.
Reducing Gun Violence in our Neighborhoods Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an additional tax of $100 on the sale of a firearm by a manufacturer, producer, or importer. Firearm purchases by federal, state, and local governments for law enforcement purposes are exempt from the additional tax. The bill establishes the Gun Violence Reduction and Mental Health Counseling Trust Fund at the Department of the Treasury. It transfers revenues from the additional tax into the trust fund to support the Community Mental Health Services Block Grant program and the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program. The Department of Justice (DOJ) must establish and newly manufactured firearms must meet a national standard for incorporating passive identification capability into all firearms sold in the United States. Passive identification capability means technology that: (1) enables identification by a mobile or fixed reading device, and (2) does not transmit an electronic monitoring or tracking signal. DOJ's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives must establish the National Database of Lost and Stolen Firearms. This bill amends the federal criminal code to require a gun owner to report a lost or stolen firearm to local law enforcement authorities within 48 hours of discovery. Local law enforcement authorities must transmit the report to the national database within seven days.
FHA Seller-Financed Downpayment Reform and Risk-Based Pricing Authorization Act of 2008 - Amends the National Housing Act to make exceptions to the prohibition against mortgage insurance for mortgages involving a downpayment using funds furnished by: (1) the seller or any party that benefits financially from the transaction. Or (2) any third party that is reimbursed by the seller or any such party. Makes eligible for mortgage insurance, in spite of a seller-financed downpayment, any mortagors with credit scores equivalent to a FICO score of: (1) 680 or more, (2) at least 620 but less than 680. Or (3) 619 or less. Prescribes conditions for mortgage insurance in the latter two situations. Requires entities participating in a governmental or private nonprofit program that provides downpayment assistance for such a mortgage to offer and make available, before loan closing, counseling about the responsibilities and financial management involved in homeownership. Authorizes the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to impose civil money penalties for improperly influencing appraisals. Prohibits the Secretary from implementing: (1) risk-based premiums designed for mortgage lenders to offer a Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured product that provides a range of mortgage insurance premium pricing based upon a specified risk that the insurance contract represents. Or (2) any other risk-based premium product for mortgage insurance on a single family residence where the premium price for such new product is based upon the borrower's Decision Credit Score. Makes an exception from such prohibition for flexible risk-based premiums. Authorizes the Secretary to establish, for a mortgagor whose FICO credit score is under 600, a mortgage insurance premium structure with a variable rate that reflects the mortgagor's credit risk, if the basis for determining such rate is established before the mortgage is executed. Requires notice to mortgagees and to Congress before such a premium structure is established or changed. Requires the Secretary to consider specified factors when premiums are established and collected under a flexible risk-based premium structure. Authorizes the Secretary to provide for variations in such rates according to the credit risk associated with the type of mortgage product that is being insured. Requires the Secretary to make payment incentives to a mortgagor, in the form of certain refunds, upon payment in full of timely mortgage payments. Authorizes the Secretary, for mortgages with a flexible risk-based premium, to establish a higher annual premium in lieu of a higher up-front premium.
Bridge Ice and Snow Prevention Pilot Program Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program authorizing grants to up to five states to conduct projects to evaluate the effectiveness of technologies to prevent ice, snow, and other adverse weather effects associated with freezing temperatures on National Highway System bridges.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish a fee on crude oil and refined petroleum products imported into the United States, other than oil or products purchased for export. Imposes the fee during any week following a four-week period when the average international price of crude oil has been less than $24 per barrel. Bases the fee on the difference between $24 per barrel and the average international price of a barrel of crude oil.
Directs the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), respectively, to assume specified responsibilities for nuclear safety and for occupational safety and health at nonmilitary energy laboratories owned or operated by the Department of Energy (DOE). Eliminates DOE's regulatory and enforcement authority with respect to such responsibilities assumed by NRC and OSHA. Makes such transfers of authority effective two years after enactment of this Act.
Veterans Programs Improvement Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase, as of December 1, 2003, the rates of veterans' disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and children. Makes the effective date for the award of death pension the same as that for the award of death compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation. Excludes lump-sum insurance proceeds from income for purposes of eligibility for veterans' pensions. Prohibits the payment of veterans' disability compensation for an alcohol- or drug-abuse related disability even if the the alcohol or drug abuse is secondary to a service-connected disability. Provides alternative beneficiaries for National Service Life Insurance and United States Government Life Insurance proceeds when the first beneficiary does not make a claim. Provides burial benefit eligibility for a veteran's surviving spouse who remarries following the veteran's death. Makes permanent the authority for the State cemetery grants program. Repeals the Department of Veterans Affairs Education Loan program. Includes self-employment training under the Montgomery GI Bill.
Super-Efficient Appliance Incentives and Market Transformation Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify the applicable amount of the tax credit for energy efficient appliances produced after 2007.
Mississippi Gulf Coast National Heritage Area Act - Establishes, in the State of Mississippi, the Mississippi Gulf Coast National Heritage Area, and assigns the Mississippi Department of Marine Resources to serve as the Area's coordinating entity . Directs the entity to develop and submit to the Secretary of the Interior a management plan for the Area. States elements that the plan shall contain, including recommendations for: (1) the conservation and development of the Area's resources. And (2) educational and interpretive programs. Directs the Secretary to approve or disapprove of the plan. Directs the entity to periodically review the plan and to submit amendments for approval. Allows the entity to make grants to and provide technical assistance to tribal and local governments and other public and private entities to further the development and implementation of the plan. Directs the entity to perform certain functions in carrying out this Act, including to: (1) assist local and tribal governments and non-profits in various ways. And (2) make available to the Secretary for audit all records relating to the expenditure of funds and any matching funds. Sets forth things this Act shall not do, including that it shall not restrict an Indian tribe from protecting cultural or religious sites on tribal land.
Fair Trade in Grain Act of 1993 - Requires a consignee of imported foreign grain to: (1) include an end-use certificate in the documentation covering the entry of such grain. And (2) submit to the Secretary of Agriculture certain quarterly reports regarding the use of such grain. Sets forth civil penalties. Prohibits the Commissioner of Customs from permitting the entry of such grain unless the importer of record presents such certificate at the time of entry. Amends the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 to require the Secretary to provide agricultural commodities or cash payments, or both, to promote US wheat exports to Mexico. Directs the administering authority to initiate a countervailing duty and antidumping duty investigation with respect to Canadian subsidies for wheat exported to the United States.
Amends Internal Revenue Code provisions concerning the credit for increasing research activities provisions to provide for an increased credit for qualified medical research expenses.
Support for Democracy and Human Rights in Zimbabwe Act of 2007 - States that is US policy to: (1) support the people of Zimbabwe in their efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights in Zimbabwe. And (2) call on President Mugabe to restore democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the United States welcomes the Southern African Development Community's announcement that the President of South Africa, Thabo Mbeki, will lead negotiations between the ruling and opposition parties in Zimbabwe. (2) preparations should be made to hold free elections in accordance with international standards. (3) cooperation among the United States, regional players in Africa, and the international community is an important component of a proactive strategy to support democratic rule and respect for human rights in Zimbabwe. (4) normalized relations with the government of Zimbabwe are desirable but until the government of Zimbabwe promotes democracy and the rule of law the United States will continue to isolate the government of Zimbabwe and expand financial and travel sanctions against those responsible for repressing Zimbabwe's people. And (5) the United States should use its influence in the U. N. Security Council to emphasize the threat to international peace posed by the government of Zimbabwe. Directs the Secretary of State to provide Congress with quarterly briefings on US strategy for engagement with Zimbabwe. Authorizes appropriations to support democracy and governance activities in Zimbabwe, including support for: (1) free and peaceful national elections, (2) creation of nonviolent political space, and (3) human rights programs.
Access to Quality Diabetes Education Act of 2013 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to recognize state-licensed or -registered certified diabetes educators or state-licensed or -registered health care professionals who specialize in teaching individuals with diabetes to develop the necessary skills and knowledge to manage the individual's diabetic condition and are certified as a diabetes educator by a recognized certifying body. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to study the barriers that exist for Medicare beneficiaries with diabetes in accessing diabetes self-management training services under the Medicare program. Requires the Director of the Agency for Health Care Research and Quality of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a series of recommendations on effective outreach methods to educate primary care physicians and other health care providers as well as the public about the benefits of diabetes self-management training.
Trade Enforcement and Trade Deficit Reduction Act This bill requires the Office of the US Trade Representative to withdraw tariff concessions granted to a foreign country if the Department of Commerce determines that such country has not reduced or eliminated a tariff or nontariff barrier on US exports in accordance with a trade agreement. Commerce must: (1) initiate an investigation if it receives a petition alleging that a foreign country has not complied with the tariff provisions of a trade agreement, and (2) identify each country whose imports of goods and services to the United States exceed twice the value of US exports to that country over a six month period. The US Customs and Border Protection must bar the importation of products from such a country unless a waiver is granted for such products to a US manufacturer, producer, or wholesaler.
Mine Safety and Health Act of 2006 - Amends the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 to impose additional health and safety requirements for all coal or other mines, including regarding: (1) the strategic location of an oxygen station, (2) wireless emergency tracking devices, (3) wireless communication devices. (4) restricting communications relating to a rescue operation only to individuals participating in the rescue. And (5) secondary telephone service. Requires interviews of miners regarding an accident or occurrence without the presence of the mine operator. Directs the Secretary of Labor to: (1) establish rules for conducting investigations of mine accidents. And (2) report to specified congressional committees within 30 days of completing an investigation. Requires the Secretary to: (1) conduct a quarterly review of a mine operator's ventilation system, methane and dust control plan, and roof control plan. And (2) contact an operator who has received a citation within 24 hours to ensure that steps are being taken to correct the safety violation. Requires the Secretary to establish a central communications emergency call center for all coal and other mine operations. Imposes increased penalties for flagrant violations of mine safety standards, for failure to promptly report mine disasters, and for habitual violators of mine safety standards. Imposes additional user fees on mine operators who incur such penalties and dedicates such fees for equipment, training, and other expenses relating to mine safety. Requires all miners to receive training in the proper usage of wireless communications devices. Requires rescue workers to participate in unannounced emergency rescue drills at an operating mine at least twice a year.
Social Security Identity Defense Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the disclosure of tax return information in cases of identity theft, to require the Department of the Treasury to: (1) disclose to the holder of a valid social security account number that there is reason to believe that there has been anbsp, fraudulent use of such account number, andnbsp, (2) disclose to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)nbsp, and the Department of Justice (DOJ)nbsp. Such social security account number, that there is reason to believe that such account number has been fraudulently used in the employment context, and the taxpayer identity information of the individual who was assigned such account number. The bill authorizes the FBI and DOJ to disclose taxpayer information to appropriate federal, state, and local law enforcement officials solely for purposes of carrying out criminal investigations or prosecutions. The bill also imposes new criminal and civil penalties for tax-related identity theft and misappropriation of tax identification numbers.
Reno, Nevada, Railroad Right-of-Way Conveyance Validation Act - Validates the conveyances from the United States to the Central Pacific Railway Company of certain lands in Washoe County, Nevada, constituting parts of a right-of-way granted to such Railway. Reserves to the United States any federally owned mineral rights in such lands.
Sportsmanship in Hunting Act of 2008 - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit anyone, in or substantially affecting interstate or foreign commerce, from knowingly transferring, transporting, or possessing a confined exotic animal for purposes of allowing the killing or injuring of such animal for entertainment or for the collection of a trophy. Exempts the killing or injuring of an exotic animal in a state or federal natural area reserve undertaking habitat restoration from such prohibition. Defines confined exotic animal as a mammal of a species not historically indigenous to the United States that has been held in captivity for the majority of its life or for a period of one year. Allows persons authorized by the Secretary of the Interior to make arrests, execute warrants, and search for and seize animals to enforce the provisions of this Act.
Makes the right to review by the Department of Justice available to any complainant with a complaint that: (1) is not considered an eligible complaint under specified time criteria. And (2) is pending at the Office of Civil Rights of the Department of Agriculture on this Act's enactment date. Deems complainants to have exhausted administrative remedies after review is completed and authorizes the filing of actions after such time in a district court. Requires the tolling of any statute of limitations beginning on the date the complaint was filed at the Department of Agriculture and ending on date of completion of review by the Department of Justice.
Quality Cancer Care Preservation Act - Amends part B of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to revise the payment amount for covered drugs and biologicals furnished during a calendar quarter that are not paid on a cost or prospective payment basis. Changes such amount from 95 percent of the average wholesale price to 120 percent of the average sales price of the drug or biological for the second preceding calendar quarter. Requires drug manufacturers to report average sales prices each calendar quarter for covered drugs and biologicals. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) revise the practice expense relative value units for drug administration services in accordance with this Act to determine the units to be used in determining the fee schedule amounts paid for drug administration services under the Medicare program. (2) recognize and make payments under Medicare for chemotherapy support services furnished incident to physicians' services. (3) recognize and establish a payment amount for the service of cancer therapy management to account for the greater pre-service and post-service work associated with visits and consultations conducted by physicians treating cancer patients compared to typical visits and consultations. And (4) develop a revised methodology for determining the payment amounts for services that are paid under the Medicare fee schedule and that do not have physician work relative value units, including radiation oncology services. Amends SSA title XVIII to provide that if the Secretary requires direct supervision of a service by a physician, that supervision requirement may be fulfilled by one or more physicians other than the physician who ordered the service.
Title I: National Ocean Exploration Program - National Ocean Exploration Program Act - Requires the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to conduct a coordinated national ocean exploration program in NOAA that promotes collaboration with other federal ocean and undersea research and exploration programs. Sets forth program authorities, including authorizing the Administrator to accept donations of property, data, and equipment to be applied for exploring the oceans or increasing knowledge of the oceans. Requires the NOAA Administrator to appoint an Ocean Exploration Advisory Board. Declares that nothing in this Act supersedes or limits the authority of the Secretary of the Interior under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Undersea Research Program - National Undersea Research Program Act of 2007 - Requires the Administrator to conduct an undersea research, exploration, education, and technology development program to increase scientific knowledge regarding management, use, and preservation of oceanic, coastal, and Great Lakes resources. Requires the program's director to cooperate with institutions of higher education and other educational marine and ocean science organizations and to make available undersea research facilities, equipment, technologies, information, and expertise to support those organizations' undersea research. Authorizes the director to enter into partnerships with the private sector to achieve program goals and to promote marine industry technological advancement. Requires that the program be conducted through a national headquarters, a network of extramural regional undersea research centers representing all NOAA regions, and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology. Specifies the research, exploration, education, and technology programs to be conducted through the network of extramural regional centers and the National Institute for Undersea Science and Technology. Allows not more than ten percent of the program's budget to be used for administration and for priority undersea research projects not covered by funding available from centers. Requires a competition every five years to select the regional centers that will participate in the program. Requires projects supported by the regional centers to be awarded using an open and competitive process. Authorizes appropriations. Title III: Interagency Planning and Coordination - Requires the NOAA Administrator, and relevant governmental, non-governmental, academic, industry, and other experts, to convene an ocean exploration and undersea research technology and infrastructure task force. Requires that the task force coordinate the development of agency budgets.
Land Disposal Program Flexibility Act of 1996 - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) to exempt from land disposal restrictions solid waste identified as hazardous based solely on one or more characteristics if such waste: (1) is treated in a treatment system that subsequently discharges to waters of the United States pursuant to a permit issued under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act , undergoes pretreatment for purposes of compliance with toxic and pretreatment effluent standards of such Act, or is treated in a zero-discharge system that the Administrator determines to be engaging in Clean Water Act-equivalent treatment, (2) no longer exhibits such characteristic prior to land disposal. (3) has met any applicable specific method of treatment promulgated by the Administrator, including those specified in the rule promulgated by the Administrator on June 1, 1990, prior to management in a land-based unit as part of a treatment system specified in clause (1) above. And (4) would not generate toxic gases, vapors, or fumes due to the presence of cyanide at the point of generation when exposed to pH conditions of a specified range. Amends SWDA to exempt from land disposal restrictions solid waste identified as hazardous based on one or more characteristics alone if the waste no longer exhibits a hazardous characteristic at the point of injection into any Class I deep well regulated under safe drinking water provisions of the Public Health Service Act. Requires the Administrator to conduct a study of hazardous waste managed in accordance with this Act to characterize the risks to human health or the environment associated with such management, upon completion of which the Administrator may impose additional requirements or rely upon other State or Federal programs or authorities to address such risks. Makes certain groundwater monitoring requirements inapplicable to new or existing municipal solid waste landfill units or lateral expansions of such units that dispose of fewer than 20 tons of municipal solid waste daily, based on an annual average, if: (1) there is no evidence of groundwater contamination from such units or expansions. And (2) the units or expansions serve a community that experiences an annual interruption of at least three consecutive months of surface transportation that prevents access to a regional waste management facility or that has no practicable waste management alternative and such units are located in an area that annually receives 25 inches of precipitation or less. Permits States to require monitoring of units that would otherwise be exempt if necessary to protect groundwater resources and ensure compliance with a State groundwater protection plan. Allows the suspension of groundwater monitoring requirements if a landfill operator demonstrates that there is no potential for migration of hazardous constituents from the unit to the uppermost aquifer during the active life of the unit and the post-closure care period. Allows the State of Alaska to exempt units of Alaska Native villages or located in or near small, remote Alaska villages from some or all of such requirements if such requirements would be infeasible, would not be cost-effective, or would be inappropriate because of the unit's remote location. Applies this exemption only to landfills that dispose of less than 20 tons of municipal solid waste daily. Directs the Administrator to promulgate revisions to provide additional flexibility to approved States to allow landfills that receive no more than 20 tons of municipal solid waste daily to use alternative frequencies of daily cover application and methane gas monitoring, infiltration layers for final cover, and means for demonstrating financial assurance, provided such alternative requirements take into account climatic and hydrogeologic conditions and protect human health and the environment. Declares that it is the intent of this Act to reinstate EPA rules promulgated on October 9, 1991, regarding groundwater monitoring at municipal solid waste landfill units.
Supporting America's Protective Security Advisor Act of 2007 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish the Protective Security Advisor Program Office within the Protective Security Coordination Division of the Office of Infrastructure Protection of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Requires the Office to have primary responsibility within DHS for: (1) encouraging state, local, and tribal governments and private sector owners and operators of critical infrastructure and key resources to participate and collaborate within the risk management framework of the National Infrastructure Protection Plan. (2) coordinating national and intergovernmental critical infrastructure and key resource activities with such governments, owners, and operators. (3) facilitating and conducting requirements, capabilities, and risk assessment analyses that enhance critical infrastructure and key resources preparedness, (4) promoting information sharing and security awareness, (5) assisting such governments in developing multijurisdictional security plans. (6) helping to ensure coordination among such governments, such owners and operators, emergency response providers, and related agencies. (7) serving as infrastructure liaison officials when a joint field office is activated in response to a natural disaster or terrorist event. And (8) facilitating and coordinating interaction with international security partners. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to develop a plan for the assignment and distribution of protective security advisors that takes into account baseline requirements and anticipated growth to: (1) ensure that protective security advisors are located across the United States and provide appropriate coverage and coordinated support, especially in high-risk regions. And (2) assign protective security advisors and support staff based on risk.
Border Health Security Act of 2015 This bill amends the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act to require the commission to cooperate with the Canada-United States Pan-Border Public Health Preparedness Council and to recommend and implement initiatives that solve border health issues. Members of the commission may provide advice or recommendations to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or Congress without authorization or a request. HHS must award grants: (1) to address the priorities and recommendations of the commission and council to improve the health of border area residents, and (2) for infectious disease surveillance activities in border areas. Every five years, the commission and the council must each prepare a binational strategic plan that includes priority areas, recommendations to address these priority areas, and an evaluation framework to gauge progress. The Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response may coordinate with the Department of Homeland Security in establishing a system that alerts clinicians and public health officials to emerging health threats in border areas.
Teachers for Tomorrow Act of 2001 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to establish new programs for teacher student loan forgiveness, under the guaranteed loan program and the direct loan program. Requires three consecutive complete school years of full-time teaching in a public elementary or secondary school as: (1) a secondary school teacher of a subject area relevant to the borrower's academic major. Or (2) an elementary school teacher who has demonstrated knowledge and teaching skills in reading, writing, mathematics, and other curriculum areas. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from a teacher's gross income any student loan amounts discharged under both the current HEA programs and those added by this Act.
Modified Line Item VetoExpedited Rescissions Act of 1993 - Amends the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to allow the President to transmit to both Houses of the Congress, for expedited consideration, a special message proposing to rescind all or part of any item of budget authority provided in an appropriation bill. Requires that such special message be transmitted not later than three days after the President approves the appropriation bill and be accompanied by draft bill or joint resolution that would, if enacted, rescind the budget authority proposed to be rescinded. Limits the amount subject to rescission to 25 percent of the amount appropriated. Sets forth House and Senate procedures for the expedited consideration of such a proposal.
Uranium Mining Modernization Act - Amends the Mineral Leasing Act to: (1) withdraw all fedral lands permanently from location and entry for uranium, and (2) prescribe a uranium leasing program for such lands.
This bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to convey to the Tanana Tribal Council in Tanana, Alaska, all interest of the United States in and to certain property containing 11.25 acres, in the village of Tanana for use in connection with health and social services programs. HHS shall convey to the Bristol Bay Area Health Corporation in Dillingham, Alaska, all interest of the United States in and to certain property included in the Dental Annex Subdivision containing 1.474 acres more or less, also for use in connection with health and social services programs. Such conveyances by warranty deed: (1) shall supersede and render of no future effect any quitclaim deed to the property executed by HHS and the Council or Corporation. And (2) shall not require any consideration from the Council or Corporation for the property, impose any obligation, term, or condition on the Council or Corporation, or allow for any US reversionary interest in the property. The Council or Corporation shall not be liable for soil, surface water, groundwater, or other contamination resulting from the disposal, release, or presence of environmental contamination. HHS shall: (1) be accorded any easement or access to the conveyed property as may be necessary to satisfy any retained obligations and liability. And (2) comply with requirements under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 for certain deeds for the transfer of US-owned real property on which any hazardous substance was stored for one year or more, disposed of, or known to have been released.
Federal-Utah State Trust Lands Consolidation Act - Establishes that the State of Utah, the Department of the Interior, and the Department of Agriculture have agreed to exchange certain Federal lands in the State of Utah for certain Utah State lands. Ratifies, confirms, and incorporates all provisions set forth in the Agreement for Exchange of Lands 2002 Federal-Utah State Trust Lands Consolidation. Directs the Federal Government to share payments pursuant to the Agreement with the State of Utah as bonus bids, rental, and royalties are shared under the Mineral Leasing Act.
Education Modernization Fund Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to make low-interest, long-term loans to States for constructing and modernizing elementary and secondary schools. Requires the Secretary of Education to determine a formula for allocating such loans to eligible States, taking into consideration the needs of States with significant increases in school student populations. Establishes the Education Modernization Fund (EMF) in the Treasury to provide funds for such loans. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) transfer to the EMF a specified amount from the Treasury's Exchange Stabilization Fund. And (2) invest, in a specified manner, the portion of the EMF that is not required to meet current withdrawals. Directs the Secretary of Education to deposit in the EMF all amounts received by incident to such loan operations, including all collections of principal and interest.
Brownfield Cleanup and Redevelopment Revolving Loan Fund Pilot Project Act of 1997 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to establish a pilot project of capitalization loans to States to establish or expand revolving loan funds for voluntary cleanup of eligible facilities. Defines eligible facility, with exceptions, as a facility or property that is a low- or medium-priority environmental hazard for the State but whose environmental contamination is thought to be: (1) preventing the timely use, redevelopment, or reuse of the facility or property, and (2) limited in scope and readily assessable. Authorizes appropriations.
Arches National Park Expansion Act of 1998 - Modifies the boundary of the Arches National Park, Utah, to include the area known as the Lost Spring Canyon Addition. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to transfer jurisdiction over the Federal lands contained in the area from the Bureau of Land Management to the National Park Service. Specifies restrictions on the continuation and sale of existing grazing leases, permits, or licenses for the area. Requires the Secretary to administer, protect, and develop the park in accordance with specified law. Withdraws Federal lands within the area from the public land laws, including the mineral leasing laws. Provides that the inclusion of the area in the Park shall not affect the operation or maintenance of the natural gas pipeline and related facilities located in the area by the Northwest Pipeline Corporation or its successors. Directs the Secretary to transfer specified Federal lands to the State of Utah in exchange for specified State school trust lands in the area, if the State offers such exchange within one year after enactment of this Act. Subjects such exchanged lands to valid existing rights. Specifies requirements to be satisfied by the State before undertaking or permitting any surface disturbing activities on the acquired lands. Requires the State to preserve existing grazing, recreational, and wildlife uses of such lands in existence on the enactment of this Act. Permits Utah to authorize or undertake surface or mineral activities authorized by land management plans for the acquired lands.
Sets forth procedures regarding the submission and notification of letters of intent by Indian tribes seeking acknowledgment or recognition under Federal law. Provides that petitioning tribes must first submit letters of intent to the Secretary of the Interior. Makes the Governor, the Attorney General, and each municipality located within the vicinity interested parties in the review. Requires the Secretary to: (1) determine when a petition is complete and ready for acknowledgment review, notify the petitioner and all interested parties, and publish notice in the Federal Register. And (2) provide a reasonable period for comment. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to provide grants to assist local governments in participating in the decision making process related to the following actions if the Secretary determines that such actions are likely to significantly affect the people represented by the local governments and to reimburse such governments for the costs of such participation: (1) an Indian group is seeking Federal acknowledgment or recognition and the Secretary determines that such group is located within or adjacent to the area under the local government's jurisdiction, or has asserted or is likely to seek trust status with respect to land within the area over which the local government has jurisdiction. (2) an acknowledged tribe is requesting that land within or adjacent to the area over which the local government has jurisdiction be put into trust status for it. And (3) an Indian group or an acknowledged tribe is claiming, or is expected to claim, interest in land based upon a treaty or law specifically applicable to land or natural resource transfers from, by, or on behalf of Indians. Permits the making of grants also to reimburse local governments for activities that were undertaken before the enactment of this Act. Directs the Secretary to provide grants to local governments to assist them with activities related to infrastructure, public safety, or social services that are made necessary or prudent as a result of a federally-recognized tribe's activities.
Patient Right to Know Act - Prohibits any contract or agreement, or the operation of any contract or agreement, between an entity operating a health plan and a health care provider from prohibiting or restricting the provider from engaging in medical communications with his or her patient. Requires that each State shall enforce this Act with respect to health insurance issuers that sell, renew, or offer health plans in the State. Provides for enforcement of this Act by the Secretary of Health and Human Services if the Secretary, after consultation with the chief executive officer of a State and the insurance commissioner or chief insurance regulatory official of the State, determines that the State has failed to substantially enforce the requirements. Mandates a civil money penalty. Allows State requirements equal to or more protective of medical communications than the requirements of this Act. Defines medical communication as being a communication between a provider and a patient regarding the patient's health status, medical care, or legal treatment options.
Psychological Kevlar Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of Defense to develop and implement a plan to incorporate preventive and early-intervention measures, practices, or procedures that reduce the likelihood that personnel in combat will develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or other stress-related psychopathologies, including substance use conditions. Requires the Secretary to: (1) update the plan periodically. (2) develop and implement a training program to educate and promote awareness among commissioned and noncommissioned officers, front-line medical professionals and primary care providers, and military personnel and their families about the signs and risks of combat stress and stress-related psychopathology. (3) establish a working group to research and develop measures that reduce the likelihood of PTSD or other pathologies in combat veterans. And (4) establish a new Peer-Reviewed Research program for such research and development.
Armed Forces Education Benefits Improvement Act - Increases for FY2005 and thereafter the amount of monthly basic educational assistance under the Montgomery GI Bill for veterans whose obligated period of active duty for such entitlement is three years. Increases such amounts, for FY2006 and thereafter, by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index. Directs the Secretary of Defense to work expeditiously with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to ensure that members of the Selected Reserve receive their educational benefits in a timely manner. Requires a study from the Secretary of: (1) Defense analyzing the effect of all GI Bill educational benefits on recruitment and retention. And (2) Veterans Affairs analyzing the effect of such benefits on the readjustment of veterans eligible for the increased benefits, above. Increases for FY2005 and thereafter the amount of monthly educational assistance for members of the Selected Reserve who agree to remain members for at least six years. Increases such amounts, for FY2006 and thereafter, by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index. Allows eligible members of the Armed Forces to make an irrevocable election to receive basic educational assistance under the GI Bill. Defines as eligible members those who: (1) first became a member or first served on active duty before July 1, 1985. (2) served on active duty without a break in service since such date. (3) continue to so serve during the one-year period following enactment of this Act. (4) have successfully completed the requirements of a secondary school diploma and the equivalent of 12 semester hours toward a standard college degree, and (5) when discharged or released, receive an honorable discharge.
Veterans Sexual Trauma Treatment Act - Makes permanent a program to require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide counseling to veterans to overcome psychological trauma which resulted from a physical assault or battery of a sexual nature, or from sexual harassment, which occurred during active miliary service . Allows such program to include appropriate treatment. Requires a Department of Veterans Affairs mental health professional to determine when such counseling and treatment is necessary. Requires the dissemination of information concerning the availability of such services to affected veterans. Includes as eligible for such care and services certain current and former reserve personnel. Directs the Secretary to: (1) complete the design and updating of public service announcements and other appropriate means of communication concerning the availability of such services and to submit to the congressional veterans' committees examples of such communications. And (2) report to such committees on program implementation. Requires the Secretary and the Secretary of Defense to report jointly to the congressional veterans' and defense committees describing their collaborative efforts to ensure that military personnel are informed upon their separation from service about sexual trauma counseling and treatment programs available through the Department.
Protect Our Recovery Through Oversight of Proprietary Trading Act of 2010 or the PROP Trading Act - Amends the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 to prohibit a banking entity from: (1) engaging in proprietary trading. Or (2) having an ownership interest in or sponsoring a hedge fund or a private equity fund. Subjects any specified nonbank financial company holding such proprietary trading and ownership interests to additional capital requirements and additional quantitative limits. Directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to adopt rules jointly to implement this Act. Authorizes the Board and the FDIC to exclude from such prohibitions specified transactions or activities, including: (1) the purchase or sale of obligations of the United States or any federal agency. (2) instruments issued by the Government National Mortgage Association , the Federal National Mortgage Association , and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. And (3) obligations of any state or its political subdivision. Prohibits from the class of excluded activities any transactions that would: (1) result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity or the nonbank financial company and its clients, customers, or counterparties. (2) result in exposure to high risk assets or high risk trading strategies. (3) threaten the safety and soundness of a banking entity or the nonbank financial company. Or (4) threaten the financial stability of the United States. Prohibits any banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager or investment adviser to a hedge fund or private equity fund from entering into a covered transaction with, or provide custody, securities lending, or other prime brokerage services to, such person. Treats a banking entity that serves as investment manager or investment adviser to a hedge fund or private equity fund as if: (1) it were a member bank subject to the Federal Reserve Act. And (2) the hedge fund or private equity fund were an affiliate thereof. Amends the Securities Act of 1933 to prohibit an underwriter, placement agent, initial purchaser, or sponsor of an asset-backed security, while the security is outstanding and held by unaffiliated investors, from engaging in any transaction that would: (1) give rise to any material conflict of interest with respect to any investor. Or (2) undermine the value, risk, or performance of such security
Student Loan Evaluation and Stabilization Act of 1995 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 with respect to student loan programs. Revises the Federal Direct Student Loan program to limit the proportion of loans made under such program: (1) for academic year 1994-1995, to five percent of the new student loan volume for such year. And (2) for academic year 1995-1996 and any succeeding fiscal year, to loans to students and parents of students attending eligible institutions which have applied and been accepted for institutional participation in such program on or before December 31, 1994. Eliminates provisions for selecting additional institutions to participate in such pilot program. Reduces the maximum amount of funds for administrative expenses of such program allowed for certain periods. Revises the items which such funds must cover, including the costs of annually assessing such program and payment of an administrative cost allowance for the expenses of guaranty agencies in servicing outstanding loans in their portfolios and in guaranteeing new loans. Revises provisions for congressional oversight of program administration, by providing for funding triggers which allow administrative funds to be obligated only in such amounts and according to such schedule as specified in the appropriations Act for the Department of Education after submission by the Department of a detailed proposal for such expenditures. Requires a guaranty agency to: (1) submit a specified application before obtaining an administrative cost allowance from such funds, (2) expend such allowance only for specified purposes. And (3) elect a payment rate on the basis of one of two specified formulas. Provides for ratable reductions of such allowances when total payments exceed a specified level. Directs the Secretary of Education to provide a detailed quarterly report of all such expenditures to specified congressional committee chairs. Requires such report to specifically identify all contracts entered into by the Department for services supporting the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program and the Federal Perkins Loan Program, as well as the current and projected costs of such contracts. Eliminates the transition to the Federal Direct Loan Program. Sets forth conditions under which: (1) Federal Perkins Loan borrowers can obtain FFEL consolidation loans. And (2) FFEL borrowers can obtain Federal direct consolidation loans. Revises provisions relating to reserve fund programs. Sets institutional default rate limitations on direct lending. Provides for applications for FFEL loans using the free Federal application form, which is already in use for other types of student aid. Allows such form to be in an electronic or any other format, subject to certain conditions, in order to facilitate use by borrowers and institutions. Provides for authorized guaranty agencies to receive such form. Amends the Congressional Budget Act to prescribe a formula for determining the cost of a direct loan on the basis of the net present value, at the time the direct loan is disbursed, of specified types of cash flows for the estimated life of the loan.
Mining Claim Maintenance Act of 2001 - Requires: (1) the holder of each unpatented mining claim, mill, or tunnel site to pay to the Secretary of the Interior an annual claim maintenance fee of $100 per claim in lieu of specified statutory assessment work requirements. And (2) the locator of every unpatented mining claim, mill, or tunnel site to pay a location fee of $25 per claim in addition to the claim maintenance fee. Prohibits the issuance of any Federal mining patent or mill site claim, unless: (1) the patent application was filed on or before September 30, 1994. And (2) specified requirements for vein or lode claims and placer claims were fully complied with.
Public School Redefinition Act of 1993 - Establishes a demonstration program to provide Federal assistance to encourage States to assist teachers, parents, and local communities to establish and develop outcome-based public schools. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to State educational agencies (SEAs) to conduct such outcome-based public school programs . Limits such grants to three years and requires the school to provide matching funds. Prohibits grant funds from being used for construction or major renovation or repair of facilities, but allows their use for planning, equipment purchases and other start-up costs, including minor renovation of facilities to meet applicable health and safety requirements. Provides that each such outcome-based public school shall be eligible to receive Federal, State, and local education revenue, grants, and other aid as though such school were a local educational agency. Directs the Secretary or the SEA receiving such a grant to terminate grant payments to an outcome-based public school upon determination that it is not making acceptable progress. Authorizes appropriations.
Electronic Books Opening Opportunity for Knowledge Act of 2014 or the E-BOOK Act of 2014 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to up to 10 institutions of higher education (IHEs) to conduct pilot programs to reduce the cost of attendance for undergraduate students by expanding their access to digital course materials. Directs the Secretary to give a preference to applications that demonstrate a commitment to serving disadvantaged students. Requires grantees to make digital course materials available to undergraduate students in at least two different academic departments. Allows the IHEs to use the grant funds to: purchase and maintain the electronic equipment or software their pilot programs need. Purchase and maintain the digital and online content that instructors or students will use. Hire staff to administer their pilot programs, with priority given to hiring enrolled undergraduate students, build or acquire extra storage space for pilot program equipment. And revise and adapt academic curricula as needed to implement their pilot programs.
International Hydrocephalus Treatment and Training Act - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to authorize the President to provide assistance to support a network of trained medical practitioners to treat hydrocephalus in children at pediatric hospitals and hydrocephalus treatment centers in developing countries. Requires such assistance to provide for surgeon training and establishment of at least 20 treatment centers.
Border Enforcement Security Task Force Reauthorization Act of 2017 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), before establishing a Border Enforcement Security Task Force (BEST) unit, to apply risk-based criteria that takes into consideration specified factors, including: whether the area in which the BEST unit would be established is significantly impacted by threats posed by transnational criminal organizations. The extent to which the unit would advance DHS's homeland and border security strategic priorities and related objectives. And whether departmental Joint Task Force operations would be enhanced, improved, or otherwise assisted by the unit. A BEST unit with a port security nexus must be composed of at least one member of: (1) the Coast Guard Investigative Service, and (2) the geographically responsible Coast Guard Sector Intelligence Office. The bill modifies the DHS annual reporting requirement on the BEST program to require:: a description of the effectiveness of BEST in disrupting and dismantling transnational criminal organizations and reducing child exploitation, an assessment of how BEST enhances information-sharing. A description of how BEST advances DHS's homeland and border security strategic priorities and effectiveness of BEST in achieving related objectives. An assessment of BEST's joint operational efforts with departmental Joint Task Force operations. An assessment of whether additional authorities are needed to accomplish the BEST mission. An assessment of whether additional Memos of Understanding are needed to address intelligence and coordination gaps. And an assessment of whether funding has an impact on the overall mission of BEST operations to assist in advancing DHS's homeland and border security priorities and related objectives. The bill expresses the sense of Congress that providing personnel danger pay to U. S Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents who are assigned to dangerous overseas posts will: (1) help modernize ICE's overseas workforce compensation system, and (2) place ICE on equal footing with the law enforcement agencies of the Department of Justice. The Department of State may not deny a request by the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or ICE to authorize a danger pay allowance for any employee of such agencies. ICE must submit a report to the congressional foreign affairs and homeland security committees that specifies the overseas posts that have been designated as locations at which ICE agents will receive a danger pay allowance and the justification for each such designation.
Technology Transfer Improvements Act of 1993 - Amends the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 regarding title to intellectual property arising from cooperative research and developments agreements (CRADAs) to: (1) direct Federal laboratories to ensure that such title is assigned to the collaborating parties to the CRADA in exchange for reasonable compensation to the Federal laboratory. (2) authorize a Federal laboratory to retain a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license from the collaborating parties for such property. And (3) authorize a Federal laboratory to require a collaborating partner to grant a license to use such property to a responsible applicant. Defines intellectual property rights as: (1) patents in the case of Government-owned, Government-operated Federal laboratories. And (2) patents, copyrights, and computer chip mask work registration in the case of Government-owned, contractor-operated Federal laboratories. Sets forth a framework for the distribution of income from intellectual property received by Federal agencies or laboratories. Requires the Comptroller General to report to the Congress on the effectiveness of the income-sharing programs established under this Act. Amends the Bayh-Dole Act to grant this Act precedence over its provisions.
Fair International Labor Standards in Trade and Investment Act of 2001 - Authorizes the Secretary of Labor, through the International Labor Affairs Bureau, to promote fair international standards in trade and investment by: (1) representing the United States in the International Labor Organization (ILO), supporting ILO activities, and consulting with organizations that represent employers and employees in ILO. (2) providing bilateral and multilateral technical assistance to enable developing countries in particular to implement core labor standards, strengthen governmental capacity to enforce national labor laws and protect internationally recognized worker rights, and develop policies to assist workers who are adversely affected by shifts in trade and investments flows, structural adjustments, and macroeconomic changes within national economies and the global economy. (3) providing bilateral aid to foreign countries to eliminate abusive child labor and other trade and investment-related worker rights violations and to support workforce development programs to foster broad-based, equitable, and sustainable economic development in recipient countries. (4) compiling and reporting annually to Congress on the extent to which each foreign country that has a trade and investment agreement with the United States protects the free exercise of internationally recognized worker rights as required under US law, and promotes core labor standards as embodied in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. (5) conducting research and analysis on the relationship between internationally recognized worker rights and core labor standards and the conduct of international, trade, commerce, and investment and related trends. And (6) making grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements to carry out such functions.
Voluntary Opportunities for Increasing Contributions to Education Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an annual tax credit of up to $500 for an individual and $100,000 for a corporation for 75 percent of the qualified charitable contributions made on behalf of elementary or secondary schools.
United States Marshals Service 225th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury, in commemoration of the 225th anniversary of the establishment of the United States Marshals Service, to mint and issue $5 gold and $1 silver coins emblematic of the 225 years of exemplary and unparalleled achievements of the US Marshals Service. Requires all such coin sales to include a surcharge of: (1) $35 per $5 coin. And (2) $10 per $1 coin. Requires distribution of the first $5 million to the Director of the United States Marshals Service National Museum, for the preservation, maintenance, and display of artifacts and documents of the US Marshals Service. Requires distribution of: (1) $1 million to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. (2) $1 million to the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund in support of the National Law Enforcement Museum and the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, (3) $1 million to the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, (4) $500,000 to the William Bill Degan Scholarship Fund, (5) $500,000 to the Robert D. May Scholarship Fund, (6) $500,000 to the Community Oriented Policing Service. And (7) $500,000 to the Retired United States Marshals Service Association. Authorizes the Secretary to strike and sell bronze duplicates of the $5 gold coins.
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend, through December 31, 2009, the duty on certain: (1) front panels for cathode-ray television picture tubes, (2) 32V funnels for use with curved screen panels, (3) 32V funnels for use with Pure Flat (PF) panels, (4) certain funnels for cathode-ray television picture tubes, (5) pre-assembled glass envelopes. (6) aperture masks made from aluminum-killed, open-coil annealed steel for color picture tubes, (7) three-beam electron guns for cathode ray tubes, (8) one-beam electron guns for projection cathode-ray tubes. And (9) aperture masks. Reduces, through such date, the duty on front panels for certain cathode-ray television picture tubes.
Team B Act - Amends the National Security Act of 1947 to establish the Counterterrorism Competitive Analysis Council to: (1) advise the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) on all policy matters relating to threats of international terrorism and domestic radicalization based on all-source information. (2) prepare a competitive analysis of each national intelligence estimate concerning al Qaeda and other foreign terrorist organizations, and submit each analysis to the DNI and the National Intelligence Council. And (3) report annually to Congress on trends in counterterrorism and domestic radicalization.
Directs the Secretary to: (1) provide for the establishment of a monument or memorial to honor the 14 Medal of Honor recipients from the United States Colored Troops who fought in the Battle of New Market Heights. And (2) include the role of black Union soldiers in historical interpretations provided at the Park.
Military Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2013 - Revises provisions concerning protected communications from members of the Armed Forces (members) to specified military and government officials to include communications made to a court, grand jury, or court-martial proceeding or to an authorized official of the Department of Justice (DOJ) or another law enforcement agency. Includes as additional protected communications any alleged violation of law, rule, or regulation, including those prohibiting rape, sexual assault, or other sexual misconduct under provisions of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Provides that neither an initial determination of whether a prohibited personnel retaliatory action was taken against a member for such a communication nor a subsequent investigation is required in the case of an allegation made more than one year after the member first becomes aware of the personnel action. Requires reports by inspectors general of the military departments concerned on prohibited retaliatory personnel actions to: (1) be submitted to such department's Secretary. And (2) include an explicit determination as to whether a prohibited personnel action has occurred and recommendations for disposition of the complaint, including appropriate corrective action for the member. Requires any such corrective action to occur within 30 days after the receipt of such report. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Secretary concerned, upon determining that an order for corrective or disciplinary action is not appropriate, to notify the Secretary of Defense, the congressional defense committees, and the member of such determination and the reasons for not taking action. Requires the appropriate correction of military records upon the request of a member for whom a prohibited action determination has been made. Establishes the member's and agency's burden of proof with respect to military whistleblower protection investigations and determinations.
Police and Fire Station Modernization Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for investment in bonds to finance capital expenditures for state and local police or fire departments. Terminates such credit after 2014.
Energy and Water Integration Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct an in-depth analysis of the impact of energy development and production on US water resources. Requires the study to include a lifecycle assessment of the quantity of water withdrawn and consumed in the production of transportation fuels or electricity. Requires the Secretary to conduct a study to identify the best available technologies and related strategies to maximize water and energy efficiency in the production of electricity by each type of generation . Directs the Secretary of the Interior: (1) acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, to conduct a study to evaluate the quantities of energy used in water storage and delivery operations in major reclamation projects. And (2) to operate, manage, and maintain the Brackish Groundwater National Desalination Research Facility in Otero County, New Mexico, to carry out research, development, and demonstration activities to develop technologies and methods that promote brackish groundwater desalination as a viable method to increase water supply in a cost-effective manner. Amends the Department of Energy Organization Act to require the Administrator of the Energy Information Administration to conduct an assessment of energy consumption in various sectors of the economy that are associated with the acquisition, treatment, or delivery of water. Requires the Secretary to develop an Energy-Water Research and Development Roadmap.
Children's Health Equity Act of 1998 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to provide for an increased Federal medical assistance percentage for expanded coverage of certain waivered low-income children in States which: (1) have established a Medicaid applicable income level for children under age 19 that is at or above 200 percent of the poverty line. And (2) demonstrate a commitment to reach and enroll such children. Defines waivered low-income children as those whose family income: (1) exceeds certain minimum Medicaid-eligible levels required to be established for the age of the child. But (2) does not exceed the Medicaid applicable income level for that child. Provides for expansion of the individuals and entities which may serve as qualified entities with regard to the Medicaid presumptive eligibility option for low-income children. Limits the number of waivered low-income children for a State for FY 1998 and each succeeding fiscal year.
Dairy Promotion Equity Act - Amends the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 to: (1) require dairy importers to contribute to the dairy promotion program, (2) increase National Dairy Board membership by including importers. And (3) provide for a referendum regarding suspension of certain provisions under the Dairy Promotion Equity Act.
Role Models Academy Demonstration Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to carry out a demonstration program under which a four-year, residential, military-style academy is established which: (1) offers at-risk youth secondary school coursework and vocational training. (2) focuses on the education and vocational training of youth at risk of delinquency or dropping out of secondary school. (3) has a teaching staff primarily composed of former members of the armed forces or participants in the Troops to Teachers Program, if they are qualified and trained to teach at the Academy. (4) operates a mentoring program involving role models from all sectors of society, (5) may contain a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps unit. (6) is housed on the site of any military installation closed pursuant to a base closure law. And (7) if effective, serves as a model for similar military-style academies throughout the United States.
Equal Employment Opportunity Restoration Act of 2012 - Amends the federal judicial code to permit one or more members of a group seeking relief for discriminatory employment practices under specified provisions of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Rehabilitation Act of 1973, equal rights laws under the Revised Statutes, or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 to sue on behalf of all members of the group if the representative party shows, by a reasonable inference, that: (1) members of the group are so numerous that their joinder is impracticable. (2) claims of the representative party are typical of the claims of the group the representative party seeks to represent and the representative party and the representative party's counsel will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the group. And (3) members of the group are, or have been, subject to an employment practice that has adversely affected or is adversely affecting a significant portion of the group's members. Permits a representative party to challenge a subjective employment practice covered by any of the above-referenced employment statutes in a group action filed under this Act to the same extent as the party may challenge any other employment practice covered by such a statute in such an action. Defines a subjective employment practice as: (1) an employer's policy of leaving personnel decisions to the unguided discretion of supervisors, managers, and other employees with authority to make such personnel decisions. Or (2) an employment practice combining such a subjective employment practice with other types of personnel decisions. Prohibits the fact that individual supervisors, managers, or other employees with authority to make personnel decisions may exercise discretion in different ways in applying a subjective employment practice under such a statute from precluding a representative party from filing a corresponding group action. Allows a representative party to elect to proceed in a group action under this Act or in a class action under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
Local Farm Vehicle Flexibility Act This bill prohibits the Department of Transportation from terminating, reducing, limitoing, or otherwise interfering with the amount or timing of grants a state is otherwise eligible to receive as a result of any minimum standard or exemption the state gives a covered farm vehicle or the driver of such vehicle less stringent than federal requirements for commercial motor vehicles and drivers. A covered farm vehicle means any motor vehicle meeting certain gross weight requirements and: registered or otherwise designated by a state for use in, or transportation activities related to, the operation of farms. Operated by a farm or ranch owner or operator, or an employee or family member. Transporting to or from a farm or ranch agricultural commodities, livestock, agricultural supplies, or machinery. And not used in the operations of a for-hire motor carrier, nor transporting materials requiring a placard. A covered farm vehicle may also be one meeting these requirements but operated pursuant to a crop share farm lease agreement, owned by a tenant under that agreement, and transporting the landlord's portion of the crops.
Public Land Management Participation Act of 1997 - Amends the Antiquities Act to require the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to provide an opportunity for public involvement and establish procedures to give the public and Federal, State, and local governments adequate notice and opportunity to comment upon and participate in the formulation of plans relating to the declaration of national monuments upon federally owned or controlled lands. Requires the Secretaries, prior to making any recommendations for declaration of an area, to: (1) ensure compliance with all applicable Federal land management and environmental statutes. (2) cause mineral surveys to be conducted by the Geological Survey to determine the mineral values that may be present in such areas. (3) identify all existing rights held on Federal lands contained within such areas. And (4) identify all State lands contained within such areas. Requires: (1) either Secretary, after such reviews and mineral surveys, to report his or her recommendations as to what federally owned or controlled lands warrant declaration as a national monument to the President. And (2) the President to advise the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the President's recommendations, together with maps of the monuments and definitions of their boundaries. Amends the National Historic Preservation Act Amendments of 1980 to provide that if an area is not wholly contained within an existing National Park System unit, the Secretaries shall provide an opportunity for public involvement and establish procedures to give the public and Federal, State, and local governments adequate notice and opportunity to comment upon and participate in the formulation of plans relating to the designation of any federally owned lands for inclusion on the World Heritage List pursuant to the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. Requires: (1) either Secretary, after such review, to report his or her recommendations as to what federally owned lands warrant such inclusion to the President. And (2) the President to advise the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of the President's recommendations with respect to the designation of any federally owned lands for such inclusion. Requires either Secretary to object to the inclusion of any property on the list unless the Secretary: (1) has submitted to the Speaker and the President of the Senate a report describing the necessity for including that property on the list. And (2) is specifically authorized to assent to such inclusion by a joint resolution of the Congress enacted after the date that report is submitted. Requires the Secretaries to report annually to specified congressional committees on each World Heritage Site within the United States. Prohibits: (1) Federal officials from nominating any lands in the United States for designation as a Biosphere Reserve under the Man and Biosphere Program of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. And (2) any designation of such a Reserve from having or being given any force or effect unless specifically authorized by an Act of Congress. Requires the Secretaries to provide an opportunity for public involvement and establish procedures to give the public and Federal, State, and local governments adequate notice and opportunity to comment upon and participate in the formulation of plans relating to such designation. Requires: (1) after such review, either Secretary to report his or her recommendations as to what federally owned lands warrant such inclusion to the President. And (2) the President to advise the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of his recommendations with respect to the designation of any federally owned lands for inclusion as a Biosphere Reserve. Requires the Secretary of State to report annually to specified congressional committees on each Biosphere Reserve within the United States. Provides that any recommendation of the President for declaration of land as a national monument, inclusion of land on the World Heritage List, or inclusion of land as a Biosphere Reserve shall become effective only if so provided by an Act of Congress.
Meat and Poultry Products Inspection Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act to: (1) permit State inspected meat and meat products to be sold or transported in interstate commerce, (2) permit the Secretary of Agriculture to use State inspectors. (3) permit State inspected meat products to be used in the preparation of products processed in federally inspected facilities. And (4) prohibit the imposition of additional or different State facilities or marketing and labeling requirements than apply under such Act. Amends the Poultry Products Inspection Act to make similar amendments for poultry and poultry products.
Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Women's History Museum Act - Establishes the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Women's History Museum. Requires the Commission to: (1) report recommendations for a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a National Women's History Museum in Washington, D. C.. (2) develop a fundraising plan to support the establishment, operation, and maintenance of the Museum through public contributions. (3) obtain an independent review of such fundraising plan, including an analysis of the resources necessary to fund the construction of the Museum and its operations and maintenance in perpetuity without reliance on federal funds. And (4) submit a legislative plan of action to establish and construct the Museum. Directs the Commission's recommendations to address issues including the impact of the Museum on regional women history-related museums, whether it should be part of the Smithsonian Institution, and the cost of constructing, operating, and maintaining the Museum and acquiring its collections. Prohibits federal funds from being obligated to carry out this Act.
Amends the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 and Federal veterans' benefits provisions to: (1) extend through December 31, 1998, the authority of the Department of Veterans Affairs to provide sexual trauma counseling at Department facilities as well as through non-Department providers. (2) remove a requirement that veterans seek such counseling within a specified period after discharge. (3) remove the current one-year limit on the length of such counseling. (4) make the provision of such counseling equal in priority to the provision of Department outpatient services. (5) authorize the Department to provide such counseling to all veterans. And (6) require the provision of a 24-hour toll-free telephone number for the provision of sexual trauma crisis counseling. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to make certain reports with respect to: (1) the operation of the telephone hotline. And (2) the difficulties veterans encounter in obtaining from the Department determinations that disabilities relating to sexual trauma are service-connected. Modifies responsibilities of Department coordinators of women's services. Requires the Secretary to ensure that such coordinators are provided sufficient resources to carry out such responsibilities.
Sound Science for Endangered Species Act Planning Act of 2002 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require the use of the best scientific and commercial data available as a basis of determinations on a petition to add or remove a species from the endangered species list. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to give greater weight to any scientific or commercial study or other information that is empirical or has been field-tested or peer-reviewed. Requires that a petition regarding a species contain clear and convincing evidence of the current and historic ranges of the species concerned, of the most recent population estimates and trends for the species, that any alleged change in the population is beyond the natural range of fluctuations, and of the reason that the petitioned action is warranted. Directs the Secretary to: (1) promulgate regulations that establish criteria that must be met for scientific and commercial information to be used as the basis of a determination to support listing a species. And (2) identify and publish in the Federal Register with notice of a proposed regulation a description of additional scientific and commercial data that would assist in the preparation of a recovery plan. Prohibits the Secretary from determining that a species is endangered or threatened unless field data collected supports the determination. Defines covered action to include: (1) additions to or removals from the lists of endangered or threatened species, (2) a recovery plan. And (3) a determination that a proposed action is or is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Requires the Secretary to: (1) appoint an independent review board to review and report on the scientific information and analyses on which a covered action is based before such covered action becomes final. And (2) provide specified participation opportunities to any person who has sought authorization or funding from a Federal agency for an action that is subject to consultation regarding its effects on endangered or threatened species or habitats. Extends the Secretary's review period for covered actions from one year to 18 months.
Mental Health First Act of 2013 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), to award grants to initiate and sustain mental health first aid training programs. Requires such a program to include: (1) core live training courses on the skills, resources, and knowledge necessary to assist individuals in crisis to connect with appropriate local mental health care services. (2) training on mental health resources, including the location of community mental health centers in the state and local community. And (3) training on action plans and protocols for referral to such resources. Sets forth the categories of individuals to be trained under the program, including emergency services personnel and other first responders, police officers and law enforcement personnel, teachers and school administrators, human resources professionals, faith community leaders, nurses and other primary care personnel, students enrolled in school, parents of students, veterans, and other individuals, audiences or training populations as appropriate. Requires such programs to train individuals to accomplish: (1) safe de-escalation of crisis situations, (2) recognition of the signs and symptoms of mental illness, and (3) timely referral to mental health services in the early stages of developing mental disorders. Requires the Secretary, in awarding grants, to: (1) ensure that grants are equitably distributed among the geographical regions of the United States, and (2) pay particular attention to the mental health training needs of populations and target audiences residing in rural areas.
Healthcare Information Technology Enterprise Integration Act - Requires the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to establish an initiative for advancing health care information enterprise integration within the United States. Authorizes the Director to focus on: (1) information technology standards and interoperability analysis, (2) supporting the establishment of conformance testing infrastructure, (3) security, (4) medical device communication. (5) supporting the provisioning of technical architecture products for management and retrieval. And (6) information management. Allows the Director to assist health care representatives and organizations and federal agencies in the development of technical roadmaps that identify the remaining steps needed to ensure that standards will be in place. Requires such roadmaps to rely upon voluntary consensus standards, where possible, consistent with federal technology transfer laws. Requires the Director to report on the development or adoption of technology-neutral information technology infrastructure guidelines and standards to enable federal agencies to effectively select and utilize health care information technologies in a manner that is: (1) sufficiently secure, (2) interoperable. And (3) inclusive of ongoing federal efforts that provide technical expertise to harmonize existing standards and assist in the development of interoperability specifications. Requires such guidelines and standards to: (1) promote the use by federal agencies of commercially available products, (2) develop uniform testing procedures suitable for determining product conformance. (3) support and promote the testing of electronic health care information technologies utilized by federal agencies, (4) provide protection and security profiles. (5) establish a core set of interoperability specifications in federal agency transactions. And (6) include validation criteria to enable federal agencies to select appropriate health care information technologies. Requires the Director to report on: (1) the level of interoperability and security of technologies for sharing health care information among federal agencies. And (2) federal agency problems and progress in ensuring interoperable and secure health care information systems and electronic health care records. Requires the Director to establish a program of assistance to institutions of higher education to establish multidisciplinary Centers for Healthcare Information Enterprise Integration in order to: (1) generate innovative approaches to health care information enterprise integration. And (2) develop and use information technologies and other complementary fields. Directs the National High-Performance Computing Program to coordinate federal research and development programs related to the development and deployment of health information technology. Requires the Director to establish a task force to develop a strategic plan, including recommendations for: (1) the development, adoption, and maintenance of terminologies and classifications. (2) gaining commitment of terminology and classification stakeholders to principles and guidelines for an open and transparent process to enable cost-effective interoperability and complete and accurate information, (3) the design of a centralized authority or governance model. And (4) US participation in the International Health Terminology Standards Development Organization. Authorizes Appropriations for FY2009-FY2010.
EPSCoR Research and Competitiveness Act of 2006 - Authorizes appropriations for FY2007-FY2011 to the National Science Foundation (NSF) for the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR). Requires the Director of the NSF: (1) in the administration of the NSF's research infrastructure improvement grant program, to authorize states participating in the grant program to include partnership with out-of-state research institutions if the amount of funding transferred to another state does not exceed 5 of the amount of the grant in any fiscal year. And (2) from the amounts appropriated pursuant to this Act, to make available specified amounts for FY2007-FY2011 to such grant program. Requires the Director to obligate and spend not less than 20 of the amount available for EPSCoR on co-funding projects that are ranked by a peer-review process in the top 20 of all proposals submitted in response to an announced competition. Requires the submission of annual reports providing information concerning: (1) co-funded projects on a state-by-state basis. And (2) the amount and use of co-funding by each of the NSF's directorates. Requires the Director: (1) through the Office of Cyber Infrastructure, to develop and publish a plan enabling states participating in EPSCoR to develop partnerships and participate fully in the NSF's Cyber Infrastructure Initiative. And (2) through the Office of Major Research Instrumentation, to develop and publish a plan enabling states participating in EPSCoR to develop partnerships and participate fully in the NSF's major research instrumentation program.
Supporting Afterschool STEM Act Requires the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish an afterschool STEM grant program awarding competitive grants to afterschool or STEM networks to: develop quality standards for STEM programming in afterschool programs and provide those programs with technical assistance in implementing such standards, work with state education stakeholders to define and promote appropriate measurable outcomes for afterschool programs that include STEM content, provide technical assistance to afterschool programs to start or grow their afterschool STEM efforts and define appropriate learning outcomes for such efforts, coordinate professional development for afterschool program educators, help afterschool program providers form strategic partnerships to advance STEM learning in afterschool programs, create and disseminate tool kits to afterschool programs wanting to form partnerships and incorporate STEM professionals as mentors and role models, and provide technical assistance to federally funded STEM researchers and professionals who wish to engage with afterschool programs. Requires the Director to reserve 20 of the funds appropriated for such grant program to develop and support new afterschool or STEM networks in states or areas where they do not exist. Defines: (1) an quot, afterschool programquot. As a structured program offered for elementary, middle, or secondary school students when school is not in session, such as before or after school, on the weekend, or during the summer, and (2) an quot, afterschool or STEM networkquot. As a coalition that fosters partnerships and provides support to afterschool program providers and STEM education providers. Includes as goals of the grant program: (1) to support the development and delivery of high-quality STEM education to populations underrepresented in STEM fields, and (2) to provide hands-on learning and exposure to STEM research facilities and businesses through in-person or virtual distance-learning experiences. Requires the Director to provide each recipient of a STEM research grant who is under the Director's authority with information on opportunities to engage with students in out-of-school-time programs, such as through mentorships.
Defense of Environment and Property Act of 2015 This bill amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to specify the types of water bodies that are quot, navigable watersquot. And therefore fall under the scope of the Act. Groundwater is considered to be state water. Activities carried out by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or the US Army Corps of Engineers may not impinge upon states' power over land and water use. States or individual property owners may obtain judicial review of jurisdictional determinations by the EPA or the Army Corps that would affect their ability to plan the development and use of land and water resources within 30 days after a determination. The EPA may not use a significant nexus test to determine federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and waters of the United States. The following rules are nullified: (1) the Army Corps' rule entitled quot, Final Rule for Regulatory Programs of the Corps of Engineers,quot, (2) the EPA's proposed rule entitled quot. Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on the Clean Water Act Regulatory Definition of 'Waters of the United States,'quot, (3) the guidance document entitled quot. Clean Water Act Jurisdiction Following the US Supreme Court's Decision in Rapanos v. United States amp, Carabell v. United Statesquot. , and (4) any subsequent regulation or guidance issued by federal agencies that defines or interprets the term quot, navigable waters. quot. The Army Corps and the EPA may not promulgate rules or issue guidance that expands or interprets the definition of navigable waters unless expressly authorized by Congress. Federal agencies must obtain the consent of private property owners prior to entering their land to collect information about navigable waters. Federal agencies that issue regulations that relate to the definition of navigable waters or waters of the United States and diminish the fair market value or economic viability of a property must pay the affected property owner an amount equal to twice the value of the loss. Until the landowners have been compensated, such a regulation will have no force or effect.
Requires each State to submit to the Attorney General a written report that specifies each location at which a State law enforcement agency stores explosive materials that have been transported in interstate or foreign commerce and the types and amounts of such materials. Directs the Attorney General to prescribe final regulations governing the storage of such materials by such agencies, including public safety and security standards and requirements for video surveillance or an alarm system. Authorizes the Attorney General to: (1) make matching grants to State and local law enforcement agencies for complying with such regulations. (2) enter any place where such an agency keeps such explosive materials for inspection and compliance determinations. And (3) reduce by ten percent the funds that an agency would otherwise receive under any Department of Justice grant program if the agency fails to comply.
Climate Resiliency, Security, and Source Water Protection Act This bill amends the Safe Drinking Water Act by requiring each community water system to submit to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) source water and distribution system vulnerability assessments that identify threats from: industrial activity, pipelines and storage tanks, contaminated sites, agricultural activity, and oil and gas exploration, climate change, extreme weather, drought, and temperature changes. And intentional acts, including intentional contamination, sabotage, and theft of any chemical of interest. Each community water system must also submit to the EPA protection plans that mitigate the threats to source water and distribution systems. The EPA must establish a grant program for increasing the resiliency or adaptability of the community water systems to threats.
Alaska Peninsula Subsurface Consolidation Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to determine the value of rights granted to Koniag, Incorporated, purusant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to receive title to the oil and gas rights and other interests in the subsurface estate of specified public lands in Alaska which Koniag possesses within the boundaries of Aniakchak National Monument and Preserve, Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge, and Becharof National Wildlife Refuge. Specifies that the value of such rights shall be equal to the fair market value of: (1) the oil and gas interests in the lands that are the subject of the selection rights. And (2) in the case of the lands for which Koniag is to receive the entire subsurface estate, the subsurface estate of the lands that are the subject of such rights. Directs the Secretary and Koniag to meet to select a qualified appraiser to conduct an appraisal of the selection rights in conformity with the standards of the Appraisal Foundation of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, utilizing a risk adjusted discounted cash flow methodology. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) submission of the appraisal report, (2) determination of the value of the selection rights. And (3) an alternative determination of value if Koniag disagrees with the value determined by the Secretary. Directs: (1) the Secretary to enter into negotiations for an agreement to exchange Federal lands in Alaska for the Koniag selection rights. And (2) the Secretary of the Treasury, regarding any such rights for which an exchange has not been completed by October 1, 2004, to establish within the Treasury the Koniag Account and, upon relinquishment of such remaining rights to the United States, to credit the Account in the amount of the appraised value of such rights. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to make amounts in the Account available to Koniag for bidding on and purchasing property sold at public sale.
Transportation Security Technology Innovation Reform Act of 2018 This bill establishes in the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) a Transportation Security Administration Systems Integration Facility (TSIF) for the purpose of testing and evaluating advanced transportation security screening technologies related to the mission of the TSA. The TSA shall notify Congress whenever testing and evaluation by the TSIF of an advanced transportation security screening technology exceeds 180 days. The TSA shall review existing advanced transportation security screening technology development, acquisitions, and procurement practices within the TSA. The TSA shall: (1) engage in outreach, coordination, and collaboration with transportation stakeholders to identify and foster innovation of new advanced transportation security screening technologies. (2) streamline the overall technology development, testing, evaluation, acquisitions, procurement, and deployment processes of the TSA. And (3) ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of such processes. The Department of Homeland Security shall submit to the congressional homeland security committees a compliance assessment of TSA's acquisition process relating to the health and safety risks associated with implementation of screening technologies.
Lorton Correctional Complex Closure Act - Transfers the Lorton Correctional Complex to the Administrator of General Services for disposal in accordance with an implementation plan for the closure of the Complex. Prohibits the establishment of any future District of Columbia (DC) prison facility in Virginia without the approval of the Governor of Virginia. Directs that any DC felon who is committed to the custody of the Attorney General for a term of imprisonment on or after the enactment date of this Act be incarcerated in a facility designated by the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, in accordance with such rules as the Attorney General may establish to assure that the treatment of such felons is similar to that of others under the control of the Director. Sets forth transition provisions. Requires the Administrator to submit to the Congress an implementation plan for the closure of the Complex which shall identify actions with respect to the future use of the land on which the Complex is located and other specified issues. Establishes a Commission on Closure of the Lorton Correctional Complex. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) a process for submission of the final implementation plan, (2) review of the Commission's proposal. (3) comments by the Commission and its members on the plan to the Administrator, (4) submission of a final plan, (5) automatic implementation of the plan. (6) membership, terms, vacancies, compensation, powers, and termination of the Commission. And (7) staff, experts, and consultants to the Commission. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to permit a qualified State or local development company that issues a debenture purchased by the Federal Financing Bank and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, at the election of the small business borrower whose loan secures such debenture and with the Administrators approval, to prepay the debenture by payment to the Bank of the unpaid principal balance, accrued interest, and repurchase premium amount . Prohibits any fees or penalties from being imposed against the issuer, borrower, or the Administration as a condition of prepayment under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Stepping Up to STEM Act of 2013 - Amends the Department of Education Organization Act to establish the Office of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education within the Department of Education to administer STEM education. Directs the Office of STEM Education to conduct an independent evaluation of the Department's STEM Education programs at least once every five years. Establishes an Advanced Research Projects Agency for Education (ARPA-ED) within the Department to pursue breakthrough research and development in educational technology and to facilitate the effective use of that technology to improve student achievement. Directs the Secretary of Education to award matching grants to state-based STEM networks or similar organizations of STEM stakeholders to increase students' achievement in the STEM disciplines in elementary and secondary schools and in out of school and afterschool programs. Includes among grant uses: testing, sharing, and scaling up STEM education research, promising practices, and exemplary programs. Identifying state STEM education weaknesses and prioritizing strategies to address them, implementing rigorous career and college ready standards in STEM education. Developing and implementing innovative STEM assessments that measure student progress toward those career and college ready standards, promoting and developing pre- and in-service STEM teacher training. Developing STEM career pathways and workforce education and training programs that reflect 21st century workforce needs. Facilitating the implementation of expanded STEM learning opportunities on school sites. And promoting, supporting, and designing programs that develop STEM content coaches and master educators in order to strengthen core competencies of the classroom practitioner. Requires grantees to conduct periodic independent evaluations of their effectiveness in accomplishing those activities. Prohibits the Secretary from: (1) endorsing or approving any STEM curriculum designed for use in an elementary school, secondary school, or institution of higher education. Or (2) requiring a state, local educational agency, or school to adopt a specific STEM program or instructional materials.
Select Agent Program and Biosafety Improvement Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act and the Agricultural Bioterrorism Protection Act of 2002 to reauthorize appropriations for the Select Agent Program, which lists and controls biological agents and toxins that have the potential to pose a severe threat to public health and safety. Requires appropriate training of individuals handling or using such agents and toxins. Includes the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) among the federal agencies limited in the disclosure of information related to listed agents or toxins. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to contract with the National Academy of Sciences to review and make recommendations for improving the Select Agent Program. Sets forth additional factors that the Secretary must consider in determining whether to list an agent or toxin, including whether the agent or toxin is endemic to the United States. Requires the Secretary to issue guidance on inventorying and monitoring listed biological agents. Directs the Attorney General to issue guidance regarding the scope of the statutory definition of variola virus. Requires the Secretary to: (1) develop guidelines for how laboratories and laboratory personnel that do not regularly test for listed agents and toxins may be rapidly accessed and utilized during emergencies. And (2) evaluate national needs of, and oversight of, high containment biological laboratories. Provides for the development of minimum standards for laboratory biosafety and biosecurity training for relevant personnel of high containment biological laboratories. Requires the Secretary to establish a Biological Laboratory Incident Reporting System.
Women's Human Rights Protection Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of State to report to the Congress on steps taken to create a special assistant to the Assistant Secretary of State to promote international women's human rights or to fulfill other specified objectives concerning such rights. Requires the Secretary, if the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) has not been submitted to the Senate for ratification, to report to the Congress on the Administration's position on ratification and the timetable for submission of CEDAW for congressional approval.
Immigration Anti-Discrimination Improvement Act of 1993 - Expresses congressional approval of a specified General Accounting Office immigration employment discrimination report. Increases budget authority for Department of Justice regional offices of the Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act with regard to unfair immigration-related employment provisions to: (1) authorize penalties collected under such provisions to be used in carrying out enforcement activities. (2) require inclusion of enforcement and related activities in certain reports to the Congress, (3) establish a national toll-free telephone hotline. (4) subject persons who engage in pervasive violations of such provisions to a one-year Federal contract disqualification. And (5) provide for District Office receipt of charges. Directs the Attorney General to appoint a citizens and community group panel, including members of specified Mexican-American organizations, to monitor the application of such anti-discrimination provisions and to report annually to the Attorney General and to the Congress.
Senior$afe Act of 2015 This bill provides that: (1) a supervisor, compliance officer, or legal advisor for a covered financial institution who has received training regarding the identification and reporting of the suspected exploitation of a senior citizen shall not be liable for disclosing such exploitation to a covered agency if such individual made the disclosure in good faith and with reasonable care. And (2) a covered financial institution shall not be liable for such a disclosure by such an individual if such individual was employed by the institution at the time of the disclosure and the institution had provided such training. A quot, covered financial institutionquot. Means a bank, a credit union, an investment adviser, or a broker-dealer. A quot, covered agencyquot. Means each of the federal financial institutions regulatory agencies or a state financial regulatory agency, law enforcement agency, or adult protective services agency. A covered financial institution may provide such training to each of its supervisors, compliance officers, or legal advisors who: (1) may come into contact with a senior citizen as a regular part of such employee's duties. Or (2) may review or approve the financial documents, records, or transactions of a senior citizen in connection with providing him or her financial services.
American Elections Act of 2010 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to: (1) apply to any domestic corporation under foreign control or specified substantial foreign influence the ban on contributions and expenditures by foreign nationals in connection with a federal, state, or local election. And (2) require disclosure in certain print or broadcast communications paid for by a coporation the percentage of corporate voting shares controlled by a foreign national, or, if no such shares exist, the percentage of gross receipts that the corporation received from a foreign national in the immediately preceding fiscal year or current pro-rated fiscal year. Requires any such broadcast communications paid for by a corporation to include an audio statement on the percentage of the corporation's shares controlled by, or of its funds that come from, foreign nationals.
Federal Employees' Compensation Reform Act of 2011 - Requires federal employees, including postal employees, who are receiving total or partial disability benefits under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA) to convert to the federal retirement system when such employees reach retirement age as defined by the Social Security Act and are otherwise eligible for an annuity under the the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).
Russian Weapons Embargo Act of 2014 - Prohibits the head of any executive agency from entering into a contract, subcontract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan agreement to Rosoboronexport, any subsidiary or affiliate of it, or any entity that has a business relationship with Rosoboronexport regarding the design, manufacture, or sale of military equipment. Requires the head of each executive agency to terminate any such arrangement. Authorizes the President to waive such prohibition if : (1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing military equipment for, the government of Syria. (2) the armed forces of the Russian Federation have withdrawn from Crimea. And (3) agents of the Russian Federation are not taking measures to destabilize the control of the government of Ukraine over eastern Ukraine. Authorizes the President to reprogram Economic Support Fund assistance or security assistance for the government of any country that enters into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or makes a grant or loan to Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary or affiliate of it in an amount up to or equal to the total amount of each such arrangement.
Lake Erie Western Basin International Wildlife Refuge Establishment Act - Establishes the Lake Erie Western Basin International Wildlife Refuge (Refuge), Michigan and Ohio. Includes the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge and the Cedar Point National Wildlife Refuge within it. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) revise Refuge boundaries to carry out its purposes or to facilitate the acquisition of property. And (2) acquire by donation, purchase, or exchange the lands and waters or interests within such boundaries. Provides for transfers from other agencies. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director of the US Fish and Wildlife Service, to conduct a study of fish and wildlife habitat and aquatic and terrestrial communities of the Maumee River. Directs the Secretary to: (1) administer all federally owned lands, waters, and interests within the Refuge. (2) ensure that hunting, fishing, wildlife observation and photography, and environmental education and interpretation are the priority public uses of the Refuge. And (3) encourage Ohio to use existing authorities under the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century to provide funding for acquisition and development of trails within the Refuge. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements regarding non-Federal lands.
Veteran Employment Through Technology Education Courses Act or the VET TEC Act This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out a five-year pilot program to provide eligible veterans with the opportunity to enroll in high technology programs of education. An quot, eligible veteranquot. Is one who is entitled to educational assistance under the laws administered by the VA. A quot, high technology program of educationquot. Is one that is offered by an entity other than an institution of higher learning, does not lead to a degree, and provides instruction in computer programming, computer software, media application, data processing, or information sciences. The VA shall enter into contracts with multiple qualified providers of such programs, under which the VA shall pay: (1) 25 of the cost of providing the program upon the enrollment of an eligible veteran, (2) 25 of such cost when the veteran completes the program, and (3) 50 of such cost upon the veteran's employment following completion. The VA shall give preference to a qualified provider that offers tuition reimbursement for any student who completes the program and does not find full-time meaningful employment within 180 days. The VA shall pay a monthly housing stipend to each eligible veteran enrolled full-time in such a program.
Stand By Every Ad Act of 2010 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to require the identification of funding and authorizing sources in communications expressly advocating the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate or which consist of the functional equivalent of express advocacy. Prescribes special rules for express advocacy radio and television communications which are not authorized by a candidate, an authorized political committee of a candidate, or its agents. Requires individual disclosure statements about the head of the entity paying for the communication and about any other person that disbursed funds to the entity to finance the communication. Requires disclosure of such identifying information within audio and video communications made through the Internet or e-mail. Applies such disclosure requirements to prerecorded telephone calls.
Coastal Barrier Resources Reauthorization Act of 1999 - Amends the Coastal Barrier Resources Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to add any parcel of real property to the Coastal Barrier Resources System if the parcel's owner so requests and the parcel is a depositional geologic feature described in specified provisions. Moves from the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 to the Coastal Barrier Resources Act provisions relating to additions to the System of excess government property and amends the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 to repeal notice provisions relating to the moved provisions. Amends the Coastal Barrier Resources Act to impose notice requirements regarding any System addition. Authorizes appropriations to carry out the Coastal Barrier Resources Act. Mandates a pilot project and report to a specified House of Representatives committee on the feasibility and cost of creating digital versions of System maps. Authorizes appropriations. Mandates corrections to the System map for unit P19-P to make that map consistent with a specified map. Replaces seven System maps relating to units NC-03P and L03 in Dare County, North Carolina, with other specified maps. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to make corrections to a specified Coastal Barrier Resources map as necessary to move the boundary of the otherwise-protected area to the Cape Henlopen Sate Park boundary to the extent necessary to exclude from the otherwise- protected area the adjacent property leased by the Barcroft Company and Cape Shores Associates, privately held corporations under the law of the State of Delaware, and to include in the otherwise-protected area the northeastern corner of Cape Henlopen State Park seaward of the Lewes and Rehoboth Canal.
Childrens' (sic) Internet Protection Act - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to make an elementary school, secondary school, or library ineligible to receive or retain universal service assistance under such Act unless it certifies to the Federal Communications Commission that it has selected and installed a technology for computers with Internet access which filters or blocks material deemed harmful to minors. Requires the determination of what shall be considered inappropriate for minors to be made by the appropriate school, school board, library, or other responsible authority, without Federal interference.
Fitness Integrated with Teaching Kids Act or the FIT Kids Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to require local educational agencies (LEAs) located in states receiving school improvement funds to annually provide the families of their students with information on healthful eating habits, physical education, and physical activity. Requires such LEAs to assist their schools in annually collecting and disseminating to the families of school students information on: (1) the most recent national recommendations for physical education and physical activity for students, as established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). (2) whether the school follows an age-appropriate physical education curriculum for all students that adheres to such guidelines or state guidelines. (3) the amount of time that students in kindergarten through grade 12 are required to spend in physical education, disaggregated by grade level. (4) the facilities available for physical education and physical activity for students enrolled in the school. And (5) any health and wellness council located in the school or with which the school is involved. Requires: (1) LEAs to provide to their state a description of the amount of time that students in kindergarten through grade 12 are required to spend in physical education, disaggregated by grade level. And (2) the state to ensure that such information is made available to the public. Directs the Secretary of Education to contract with the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to study: (1) ways of incorporating physical education into school settings, and before- and after-school programs. (2) innovative and effective ways to increase physical activity for all students in kindergarten through grade 12. (3) efforts to encourage the participation of disabled students in physical education programs and the types of accommodations used to increase their participation. (4) the impact health and physical activity and education have on students' ability to learn. And (5) the progress students make in increasing their physical activity and improving their health and well-being, with specific recommendations for effectively measuring such progress. Directs the Secretary to study the participation of students in physical education and other physical activities in public elementary and secondary schools and assess their physical activity and fitness levels. Directs the Secretary to: (1) identify and make available to states and LEAs, best practices on innovative physical education and physical activity policies and programs at the state and local level. And (2) update the best practices after the NAS study is completed. Directs the Secretary, in collaboration with the Secretary of Agriculture, to encourage schools to participate in the HealthierUS School Challenge of the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department of Agriculture.
Presidential Library Donation Reform Act of 2016 This bill requires each presidential library fundraising organization to submit quarterly reports to the National Archives and Records Administration on every contributor who gave the organization a contribution or contributions totaling $200 or more for the quarterly period. The Archivist of the United States shall publish such information on the website of the National Archives within 30 days after each quarterly filing. It shall be unlawful for contributors or fundraising organizations knowingly and willfully to submit false information or omit material information. Prescribes criminal penalties for violation of this prohibition. No additional funds are authorized to carry out this Act's requirements. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.
Ebola Emergency Response Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that: the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa poses severe health, economic, and security threats to the affected countries, the United States, and the broader international community. And the whole-of-government response taken by the United States provides capabilities critical to helping contain Ebola in West Africa. Yet the United States alone will not succeed in containing it. Directs the President to: coordinate with the governments of affected African countries, the private sector, regional and international financial institutions and international organizations, civil society, and nongovernmental organizations to implement a comprehensive Ebola control strategy and assist affected populations. And use US influence at the United Nations (U. N.) to ensure that the U. N. Mission in Liberia is protecting individuals under its care and playing an active emergency response role, and ensuring that the U. N. Mission for the Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER) is playing an effective role in aligning donors around a plan to detect, contain, treat, and deter Ebola's further spread. Authorizes the President to provide specified emergency assistance to countries directly affected by or at imminent risk of being affected by the Ebola outbreak. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should work with other donors, including international financial institutions, to encourage them to: (1) help the governments of Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone mitigate the risks of economic collapse and related civil unrest by providing access to emergency grants and financing tools to address fiscal issues that are the direct result of the Ebola crisis, and (2) assist with post-crisis economic recovery.
Amends SSA title XI to modify the required contents of social security account statements, including changes requiring such statements to contain information on the name, age, gender, mailing address, and marital status of the eligible individual, as well as additional specified new contents. Revises provisions on the mandatory provision of such statements, with changes to incorporate the Internet as a means of provision as soon as the Commissioner of Social Security determines that adequate confidentiality safeguards are in place. Replaces each reference to the Secretary with the Commissioner of Social Security each place such reference occurs in SSA title XI provisions on social security account statements.
Federal Entrepreneur-in-Residence Act of 2012 - Directs the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to establish an entrepreneur-in-residence program to appoint in-house entrepreneurs who have demonstrated success in working with small business concerns and entrepreneurs to: (1) assist federal agencies in improving outreach to small business concerns and entrepreneurs, (2) provide recommendations on inefficient or duplicative agency programs and on methods to improve agency efficiency, (3) facilitate meetings and forums to educate small business concerns and entrepreneurs on agency programs and initiatives, and (4) provide technical assistance or mentorship. Limits to 10 the number of entrepreneurs-in-residence that the Director may appoint in any year. Terminates such program after FY2016.
Grants a federal charter to the National Academy of Inventors.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Antitrust and Criminal Provisions Title II: Additional Provisions Internet Freedom Act - Title I: Antitrust and Criminal Provisions - Provides that in any civil action based on antitrust violations, evidence that an incumbent local exchange carrier that has market power in the broadband service provider market area has willfully and knowingly failed to provide conditioned unbundled local loops when economically reasonable and technically feasible, or restrains the ability of another carrier to compete in the provision of such services, shall establish a presumption of an antitrust violation. Establishes an identical presumption in the case of a broadband access transport provider that has market power in the broadband service provider market who has offered access to a service provider on terms and conditions less favorable than those otherwise offered, or restrains unreasonably the ability of another provider from competing in the provision of such services. Defines: (1) broadband as a transmission capability in excess of 200 kilobits per second in at least one direction. And (2) a broadband access transport provider as one who engages in the broadband transmission of data between a user and his service provider's point of interconnection with the broadband access transport provider's facilities. Makes it unlawful for a broadband access transport provider to engage in unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the provision of such services. Amends the Federal criminal code to provide criminal penalties against anyone who intentionally: (1) and without authorization initiates the transmission of a bulk unsolicited electronic mail message to a protected computer with knowledge that such message falsifies an Internet domain, header information, or other identifier. Or (2) sells or distributes any computer program designed primarily to conceal the source or routing information on such mail, has only limited commercially significant purpose or use, or is marketed by the violator or another person acting in concert with the violator with the violator's knowledge of such use. Title II: Additional Provisions - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require each local exchange carrier to submit to the State communications commission in each State in which such carrier does business a plan to provide broadband telecommunications service in all local exchange areas in which such carrier has telephone exchange service customers, as soon as such service is economically reasonable and technically feasible. Considers such plan certified unless rejected within 45 days. Requires plan implementation within 180 days . Prohibits State or Federal Communications Commission (FCC) modification of such plans. Provides that interLATA services shall not include services that consist of or include the transmission of any data or information by means of the Internet or any other network that employs Internet Protocol-based or other packet-switched technology. Prohibits a Bell operating company or its affiliate from providing, by the Internet or similar network employing such technology, two-way voice only interLATA telecommunications services originating in any of its in-region States until the FCC approves the application of such company for such State.
Social Security Disability Amendments Act of 1994 - Amends title XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act to: (1) disregard the deemed income and resources of an ineligible spouse when determining the continued eligibility of the disabled spouse for Medicaid. (2) provide that individual Plans for Achieving Self Support (PASS) shall be deemed approved unless disallowed within 60 days by the Social Security Administration. (3) disregard the income andor resources received by a PASS recipient for the purpose of achieving housing or career goals. (4) require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations that consider both individual career and housing goals, and the difficulty of achieving self-support. (5) treat certain grant, scholarship, or fellowship income as earned income according to a certain formula. And (6) retain SSI eligibility for students temporarily outside the United States who demonstrate that their absence is to conduct studies as part of an educational program sponsored by an educational institution in the United States and designed to prepare the individual for gainful employment.
Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies Act - Establishes the Commission on the Accountability and Review of Federal Agencies to: (1) evaluate executive agencies and their programs. And (2) submit to Congress a plan recommending agencies and programs that should be realigned or eliminated and proposing implementing legislation. Directs the President to: (1) establish a systematic method for assessing the effectiveness and accountability of agency programs. And (2) submit to the Commission assessments of not less than half of the programs that use such method. Prohibits the implementation of such method until it has been reviewed and accepted by the Commission, which shall consider such assessments submitted. Requires the President to identify common performance measures for programs having similar functions and provide the Commission with data on such measures.
Federal Mandate Relief Act of 1993 - Prohibits the enforcement of an intergovernmental regulation against a State or local government with respect to a fiscal year: (1) unless sufficient Federal funds have been appropriated to reimburse all State or local governments for the total additional costs that will be incurred by those governments in complying with the regulation during the fiscal year. Or (2) the Congress approves by a two-thirds vote of the Members of each House a joint resolution that waives such prohibition with respect to that intergovernmental regulation and that fiscal year. Specifies that the total additional costs that will be incurred by State and local governments in complying with an intergovernmental regulation during a fiscal year shall be the total compliance costs estimated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under this Act. Requires the Director, for each fiscal year in which an intergovernmental regulation will be in effect, to submit to the President and the Congress a report that contains an estimate for that fiscal year and the following fiscal year of the total additional costs that have been or will be incurred by each State and local government in complying with the regulation. Sets forth provisions with respect to reimbursements of State and local governments by Federal agencies.
Eastern Sierra Rural Heritage and Economic Enhancement Act - Designates as wilderness areas and components of the National Wilderness Preservation System certain lands in the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest, which shall be deemed part of the Hoover Wilderness and Emigrant Wilderness. Authorizes appropriations for management and enforcement of snowmobile use on such lands. Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate specified segments of the the Amargosa River, California, as a component of the national wild and scenic rivers system.
Reclamation Title Transfer Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a program to: (1) identify and analyze the potential for public benefits from the transfer out of federal ownership of eligible reclamation projects or facilities. And (2) facilitate such transfer to promote more efficient management of water and water-related facilities. Authorizes the Secretary to convey title in any such facility to a qualifying entity , provided that: (1) the Secretary retains any associated mineral interests, (2) water interests are conveyed by written agreement. And (3) interests in eligible facilities are conveyed by an agreement developed in consultation with the facility's existing power customers. Requires the Secretary to: (1) complete all actions required under all applicable laws before conveying land and facilities. And (2) establish criteria for determining whether facilities are eligible for title transfer, including requirements that a qualifying entity agrees to accept title to the property and that the proposed title transfer will not have an unmitigated significant effect on the environment. Shields the United States from liability for any act, omission, or occurrence based on its prior ownership or operation of the conveyed property. Requires a recipient entity to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in its operation of conveyed property.
Border Protection and Infrastructure Act of 1998 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit and set penalties for committing a crime of violence during and in relation to: (1) eluding customs, immigration, or agriculture inspection or failing to stop at the command of an officer of customs, immigration, or animal and plant and health inspection services. Or (2) an intentional violation of specified arrival, reporting, entry, or clearance requirements . Specifies that if two or more persons conspire to commit such an offense, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy, each shall be punishable as a principal, except that the death sentence may not be imposed. Increases the penalty for entry of goods by means of false statements. Prohibits the master, operator, or person in charge of a vessel of, or subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States from failing to obey an order to heave to that vessel upon being ordered to do so by an authorized Federal law enforcement officer. Prohibits any person on board from knowingly or willfully: (1) failing to comply with an order of such an officer in connection with the boarding of the vessel. (2) impeding or obstructing a boarding, arrest, or other law enforcement action authorized by Federal law. Or (3) providing false information to such an officer during a boarding regarding the vessel's destination, origin, ownership, registration, nationality, cargo, or crew. Prohibits the pilot, operator, or person in charge of an aircraft which has crossed the US border, or an aircraft subject to US jurisdiction operating outside the United States, from knowingly failing to obey an order to land by such an officer who is enforcing US laws relating to controlled substances or money laundering. Directs the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to prescribe regulations governing the means by, and circumstances under which, such an officer may communicate an order to land. Authorizes a foreign nation to consent or waive objection to such enforcement of US law by the United States by international agreement or, on a case-by-case basis, by radio, telephone, or similar oral or electronic means. Sets penalties for intentional violations. Authorizes seizure and forfeiture to the United States of an aircraft or vessel used in violations. Establishes civil penalties for failure to comply with vessel boarding. Directs the Attorney General to increase the number of positions for full-time, active-duty border patrol agents within the Immigration and Naturalization Service to achieve a level of 20,000 positions by FY 2003. Prohibits a US Border Patrol agent, within ten miles of the US international border, from ceasing pursuit of an alien suspecting of unlawfully entering the United States, or of an individual suspected of unlawfully importing a narcotic into the United States, until State or local law enforcement authorities are in pursuit of the alien or individual and have the alien or individual in their visual range. Authorizes: (1) the Border Patrol to interdict the importation of narcotics. And (2) the Attorney General to install multi-layered barriers and roads in the US border vicinity to deter drug trafficking in high drug trafficking areas. Authorizes appropriations.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on July 5, 2016. Foreign Aid Transparency and Accountability Act of 2016 This bill defines quot, covered US foreign assistancequot. As assistance authorized under: part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 , except for title IV of chapter 2 , and chapter 3, chapter 4 of part II of such Act, the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003. And the Food for Peace Act. The President shall within 18 months prescribe guidelines for establishment of goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for covered US foreign assistance. The guidelines shall direct federal departments and agencies that administer such assistance on how to: establish annual monitoring and evaluation agendas and objectives, develop specific project monitoring and evaluation plans. Apply monitoring and evaluation methodologies to covered US foreign assistance programs. Disseminate guidelines for the development and implementation of monitoring and evaluation programs to all personnel responsible for program design, implementation, and management of covered US foreign assistance programs, establish data collection methodologies. Evaluate, at least once in their lifetime, all programs whose dollar value equals or exceeds the median program size for the relevant office or bureau. Develop a clearinghouse capacity for the collection and dissemination of knowledge and lessons learned that serve as benchmarks for future programs, distribute evaluation reports internally, publicly report evaluations and related recommendations. Undertake collaborative partnerships and coordinate efforts with academic, national and international institutions. Make verifiable and timely data available to monitoring and evaluation personnel. And ensure that standards of professional evaluation organizations for monitoring and evaluation efforts are employed. The President shall within 18 months give Congress a detailed description of these guidelines. The Government Accountability Office shall analyze the guidelines and assess their implementation by the appropriate agencies, bureaus, and offices. The Department of State shall within 90 days update its Internet website, ForeignAssistance. gov, to make publicly available comprehensive and accessible information on covered US foreign assistance programs. The head of each federal department or agency that administers such assistance shall give the State Department comprehensive program information each quarter. Assistance program information shall be published: (1) on an award-by-award and country-by-country basis, or (2) on an award-by-award and region-by-region basis if provided on a regional level. Such information shall include: (1) links to all regional, country, and sector assistance strategies, annual budget documents, congressional budget justifications, and evaluations. (2) basic descriptive summaries for foreign development and economic assistance programs and awards under such programs. And (3) obligations and expenditures. If a federal department or agency determines that the inclusion of a required item of information online would jeopardize the health or security of an implementing partner or program beneficiary, or would require the release of proprietary information, it shall give Congress that determination in writing. If the State Department determines that online inclusion of a required item of information would be detrimental to US national interests, it shall also give Congress that determination in writing. The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the State Department and the US Agency for International Development (USAID) should, by the end of FY2018, coordinate data collection consolidation for the State Department's website, ForeignAssistance. gov, and USAID's website, Explorer. USAID. gov.
Made in America Act of 2016 This bill directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to establish labels that persons or businesses may use voluntarily to indicate to consumers the extent to which products introduced, delivered for introduction, sold, advertised, or offered for sale in commerce are of US origin. The FTC must establish four categories of such labels, to be known as America Star labels, which may be used to designate products: (1) that satisfy the standard for an unqualified US origin claim set forth by the FTC in the Enforcement Policy Statement on US Origin Claims. Or (2) for which not less than 90, 80, or 70 of the total cost of manufacturing is attributable to US costs. The FTC must promulgate regulations for such labels and enforce such regulations under the Federal Trade Commission Act. The bill also preempts certain state law requirements relating to the use of quot, Made in the USA. quot, or quot, Made in Americaquot. Labels. The preemption provisions provide for: (1) the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to supersede state laws that impose more stringent requirements, and (2) FTC regulations under this bill to supersede state laws.
Victims Protection Act of 2014 - Amends the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 to revise the sexual assault prevention and response program activities of the Armed Forces. Amends NDAA 2014 to include the senior trial counsel detailed to a case involving sex-related charges in the process for determining whether such charges should be referred for a court-martial . Requires the Special Victims' Counsel, in cases involving sexual assaults in the military, to provide advice to assault victims on the advantages and disadvantages of prosecuting such assaults by court-martial or in a civilian court. Requires the Secretaries of the military departments to: (1) establish a process to ensure consultation with the victim of a sexual assault to determine such victim's preference for prosecuting such assault either by court-martial or in a civilian court, and (2) afford great weight to such preference in determining which court shall prosecute the offense. Requires notification to a victim who expresses a preference for prosecution in a civilian court if a decision is made to decline prosecution or prosecute such offense by court-martial. Requires performance appraisals of: (1) officers and enlisted personnel of the Armed Forces to include an assessment of the extent to which such members support their respective sexual assault prevention and response programs, and (2) a commanding officer to indicate the extent to which such officer has established a command climate in which allegations of sexual assault are properly managed and fairly evaluated and a victim can report criminal activity without fear of retaliation or ostracism. Requires the Secretaries of the military departments to establish a process for a command climate assessment and for a confidential challenge by an individual who was the victim of a sexual assault of the terms or characterization of such individual's discharge or separation from the Armed Forces. Requires a modification of the Military Rules of Evidence to clarify that evidence of the general military character of an individual accused of a criminal offense shall not be admissible for the purpose of showing the probability of innocence of such individual, unless such evidence is relevant to an element of the offense for which the accused has been charged. Requires the Secretary of the military department concerned to ensure that provisions of NDAA 2014 relating to sexual assault prevention and response apply to the US Military Academy, the Naval Academy, and the Air Force Academy. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure that such provisions apply to the Coast Guard Academy. Requires the Secretary of Defense (DOD) and the Attorney General to jointly develop a strategic framework for collaboration between DOD and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to prevent and respond to cases of sexual assault and report to the Armed Services and Judiciary Committees of Congress on such framework. Requires such framework to be based on and to include: (1) an assessment of the role of DOD in investigations and prosecutions of sexual assault cases in which DOD and DOJ have concurrent jurisdiction. (2) an assessment of the feasibility of establishing the position of advisor on military sexual assaults within DOJ and provide DOD investigative and other assistance in sexual assault cases on domestic and overseas military installations. (3) an assessment of the number of unsolved sexual assault cases. (4) a strategy to leverage efforts by DOD and DOJ to improve the quality of investigations, prosecutions, specialized training, services to victims, awareness, and prevention and to address social conditions that relate to sexual assault. And (5) mechanisms to promote information sharing and best practices between DOD and DOJ. Advances from 120 to 60 days after the enactment of NDAA 2014 the due date for the report of the DOD Secretary on a proposed punitive article under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for violations of prohibitions against inappropriate contact with prospective and new members of the Armed Forces. Expresses the sense of the Senate that: (1) the panel to review and assess the systems used to respond to sexual assault established by NDAA 2014 is conducting an independent assessment of the systems used to investigate, prosecute, and adjudicate crimes involving adult sexual assault and related offenses. (2) the work of such panel will be critical in informing the efforts of Congress to combat rape, sexual assault, and other sex-related crimes in the Armed Forces. (3) the panel should include in its assessment a review of the reforms that will be enacted by NDAA 2014. And (4) the views of the victim advocate community should continue to be well-represented on the panel.
Code Talkers Recognition Act of 2008 - Directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the award of gold medals to recognize the service of Native American code talkers during World War I and World War II. Defines code talker as a Native American who served in the Armed Forces during a foreign conflict and who transmitted secret coded messages for tactical military operations during World War I and World War II using native tribal language. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury: (1) in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and Indian tribes, to identify each Native American tribe, with the exception of the Navajo Nation, that had a member serve as a Native American code talker. (2) to provide a list of such code talkers to the Smithsonian Institution. (3) to design and strike the gold medals to be awarded. And (4) to strike silver duplicate medals for such code talkers or their next of kin or personal representatives. Authorizes the Secretary to strike and sell bronze duplicate medals to pay for the cost of the gold and silver medals. Directs the Smithsonian Institution to accept and maintain the gold medals awarded on behalf of the code talkers. Encourages the Smithsonian Institution to create a standing exhibit for Native American code talkers or Native American veterans. Authorizes payment from the US Mint Public Enterprise Fund for the cost of medals struck pursuant to this Act.
Radiation Experimentation Compensation Act of 1994 - Apologizes on behalf of the Nation to the individuals who were the subjects of radiation experiments conducted by the Federal Government, as well as to their families for the hardships they have endured as a result. Establishes in the Treasury the Radiation Experimentation Compensation Trust Fund for compensating the subjects of experiments conducted between January 1, 1940, and December 31, 1974, during which the subjects were intentionally exposed to radiation without their informed consent. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Attorney General to establish procedures for the submission of claims and pay from amounts in the Fund each claim meeting the requirements of this Act. Provides for payments in cases of deceased experimental subjects. States that payments under this Act which are accepted by a subject or the subject's survivors shall be in full satisfaction of all claims of or on behalf of the subject against the United States arising out of the subject's participation in the experiment. Provides for judicial review. Establishes a time limit for filing claims of 20 years after enactment of this Act.
Dairy Promotion Fairness Act - Amends the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 to define imported dairy product and importer for purposes of the dairy promotion program. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to appoint up to two qualifying dairy importers to the National Dairy Promotion and Research Board. Requires dairy importers to contribute to the dairy promotion program. Makes both importers and producers eligible to vote in referendums.
Shareholder Protection Act of 2010 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit an issuer from making any expenditure for political activities in excess of $10,000 in any fiscal year without first obtaining the written affirmative authorization for such expenditure by a majority of all shareholders. Deems a violation of this requirement to be a breach of the fiduciary duty of the officers and directors who authorized such expenditure. Subjects to joint and several liability to any shareholder or class of shareholders for the amount of such expenditure the officers and directors who authorize it without prior shareholder authorization. Prohibits rules and guidelines established by any national securities exchange or by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from considering as a routine corporate matter a decision to make a contribution or expenditure for political activities in excess of $10,000. Exempts from the shareholder prior approval requirement an issuer whose sole business is the publication or broadcasting of news, commentary, literature, music, entertainment, artistic expression, scientific, historical or academic works, or other forms of information. Directs the SEC to require issuers to disclose quarterly any expenditure for political activities made during the preceding quarter. Requires such report to be filed with the SEC, provided to shareholders, and be made publicly available through the SEC website.
Combat Human Trafficking Act of 2015 Amends the federal criminal code, with respect to sex trafficking of children, to: (1) subject to criminal prosecution buyers, as well as sellers, of commercial sex involving sex trafficking victims. (2) provide that in prosecutions of sex trafficking crimes, the government is not required to prove that a sex trafficking defendant knew or recklessly disregarded the fact that a victim was under age 18. (3) equalize the period of supervised release for sex trafficking offenders convicted of conspiracy. (4) expand wiretap authority for investigating crimes related to sex trafficking, including slavery, involuntary servitude, and forced labor. (5) grant crime victims the right to be informed in a timely manner of any plea agreement or deferred prosecution agreement. And (6) require an appellate court to apply ordinary standards of review in reviewing appeals filed by crime victims. nbsp, nbsp, nbsp. Requires the Bureau of Justice Statistics in the Department of Justice (DOJ) to prepare and report annually on: (1) the rates of arrests by state law enforcement officers for sex trafficking crimes involving buyers of commercial sex involving sex trafficking victims,nbsp. And (2) prosecutions and convictions for such crimes in state courts. Directs the Attorney General to ensure that: (1) DOJ anti-human trafficking training programs, including programs for law enforcement officers, include technical training on effective methods for investigating and prosecuting individuals who obtain, patronize, or solicit a commercial sex act involving a person subject to severe forms of human trafficking and on facilitating the provision of physical and mental health services by health care providers to persons subject to severe forms of human trafficking. (2) federal law enforcement officers are engaged in activities, programs, or operations involving the detection, investigation, and prosecution of such offenses. And (3) DOJ anti-human trafficking programs for US attorneys or other federal prosecutors include training on seeking restitution for peonage, slavery, and human trafficking offenses to ensure that each such attorney, upon obtaining a conviction for such an offense, requests a specific amount of restitution for each victim without regard to whether the victim requests it. Requires the Federal Judicial Center to provide training to judges relating to the application of mandatory restitution provisions regarding ordering restitution for victims of such offenses.
Guard and Reserve Readiness Retention Act of 2004 - Makes eligible for retired pay non-regular service reserve personnel who obtain the following age and years of reserve service: (1) 60 and 20, (2) 59 and 22, (3) 58 and 24, (4) 57 and 26, (5) 56 and 28, (6) 55 and 30, (7) 54 and 32. And (8) 53 and 34. Removes the requirement that members of the Selected Reserve and the Individual Ready Reserve may be eligible for benefits under TRICARE only if such members: (1) are eligible unemployment compensation recipients. Or (2) are not eligible for health care benefits under any employer-sponsored health benefits plan. Makes such eligibility permanent . Directs the Secretary of the military department concerned to pay the applicable premium to continue in force any qualified health plan coverage for a reserve member while the member is serving on active duty pursuant to a call or order issued during a war or national emergency declared by the President or Congress. Requires the continuation of COBRA coverage during such period. Prohibits simultaneous coverage under both the qualified health plan and TRICARE.
Military Commissions Act of 2004 - Amends the Uniform Code of Military Justice to permit a military commission to try any person, not a citizen of the United States, for one or more offenses against the law of war or in furtherance of terrorism. Permits only the President, or a person designated by the President, to appoint such a commission. Requires a commission to consist of not less than three members and not more than seven members. States that trial and defense counsel shall be detailed for a military commission on the same basis as such counsel are detailed for a general court-martial. Requires members of a military commission to deliberate and vote in closed conference. Prohibits: (1) a military commission from finding a person guilty of an offense, and determining a sentence, except by the concurrence of two-thirds of the members present at the time the vote is taken. And (2) from sentencing a person to suffer death except by the concurrence of all the members as to the findings and as to the sentence. Sets forth other requirements relating to a commission, including requiring the accused in a military commission to be given specified minimum rights and protections. Outlines procedures for, and courts of, appeal.
Health Care COBRA OffSet Tax Savings Act of 2005 or the Health Care COSTS Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain individual taxpayers a refundable tax credit for 50 of the premium for COBRA continuation coverage under a group health plan. Requires notice of the availability of this tax credit to individuals entitled to COBRA continuation coverage.
Freedom of Choice Act - Declares that it is the policy of the United States that every woman has the fundamental right to choose to: (1) bear a child, (2) terminate a pregnancy prior to fetal viability. Or (3) terminate it after fetal viability when necessary to protect her life or her health. Prohibits a governmental entity from : (1) denying or interfering with a woman's right to exercise such choices. Or (2) discriminating against the exercise of those rights in its regulation or provision of benefits, facilities, services, or information. Authorizes an individual aggrieved by a violation of this Act to obtain appropriate relief, including relief against a governmental entity in a civil action. States that this Act applies to every Federal, State, and local statute, ordinance, regulation, administrative order, decision, policy, practice, or other action enacted, adopted, or implemented before, on, or after the date of enactment of this Act.
Air Cargo Security Act - Amends Federal aviation law to require the screening of cargo that is to be transported in passenger aircraft operated by domestic and foreign air carriers in interstate and intrastate air transportation . Directs the Under Secretary of Transportation for Security under the Transportation Security Administration to develop a strategic plan to carry out such screening. Sets forth certain measures to increase the safety and security of air cargo, including the establishment of systems that: (1) provide for the regular inspection of shipping facilities for cargo shipments. (2) provide an industry-wide pilot program database of known cargo shippers. (3) train persons that handle air cargo to ensure that such cargo is properly handled and safe-guarded from security breaches. And (4) require air carriers operating all-cargo aircraft to have an approved plan for the security of their air operations area, the cargo placed aboard the aircraft, and persons having access to their aircraft on the ground or in flight. Directs the Under Secretary to conduct random audits, investigations, and inspections of indirect air carrier facilities to determine if the indirect air carriers are meeting the security requirements of this Act.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow penalty-free distributions from eligible individual retirement plans for qualified first-time home purchases or qualified higher education expenses.
Internet of Things Consumer Tips to Improve Personal Security Act of 2017 or the IOT Consumer TIPS Act of 2017 This bill requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)nbsp. In coordination with the National Institute of Standards and Technology and relevant private sector stakeholders and expertsnbsp. To develop voluntary educational cybersecurity resources for consumers relating to thenbsp. Protection and use of the Internet of Things . The resources must be technology-neutral and include guidance, best practices, and advice for consumers to protect against, mitigate, and recover from cybersecurity threats or security vulnerabilities. The resources do not bind the FTC to any particular guidance, best practice, or advice. The FTC may not base an enforcement action on any failure to promote or use such guidance, best practice, or advice unless such practice violates another provision of law.
Cancer Survivorship Research and Quality of Life Act of 2002 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to include demonstration, education, and other programs concerning cancer survivorship among the activities of the National Cancer Institute (Institute) within the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Requires the Director of NIH to: (1) expand and coordinate NIH activities related to cancer survivorship. And (2) establish an Office on Survivorship within the Institute. Creates the position of Associate Director for Survivorship. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Protection, to: (1) study the health challenges associated with cancer survivorship and carry out projects and interventions. And (2) make grants for the monitoring and evaluation of cancer care and survivorship.
Simple Universal Healthcare Act of 2009 - Requires the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to establish a Citizen's Congressional Health Benefits Program (CCHBP) to provide comprehensive health insurance coverage similar to coverage that has been provided to Members of Congress and federal employees, retirees, and their dependents under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) to: (1) federal elected officials. And (2) US residents who are not covered under FEHBP. Authorizes the Director to enter into contracts with entities for the offering of qualified CCHBP health plans in a manner similar to the process by which the Director is authorized to enter into contracts with entities under FEHBP. Requires any FEHBP health plan to be treated as a qualified CCHBP health plan. Requires CCHBP health plans to: (1) provide for the same scope and type of benefits that are provided under FEHBP. (2) provide a minimum level of preventive benefits determined by the Director, including vaccines for children and adults, an annual physical, cancer screening, and mental health parity. And (3) provide notice to any covered individual of any benefit or service that is not included in the calculation of the annual or lifetime out-of-pocket limit. Prohibits CCHBP health plans from imposing preexisting condition exclusions or otherwise discriminating based on health status with respect to individuals who enroll upon initial eligibility. Allows a plan to exclude an individual from enrolling based on a preexisting condition during an annual enrollment period after such individual's initial eligibility period. Lists eligibility requirements. Excludes individuals enrolled under FEHBP or other specified public health insurance programs and incarcerated individuals. Requires the Director to promulgate regulations for the use of the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements system to verify the legal presence and status of an individual, other than a US citizen, who seeks to enroll in a qualified CCHBP plan. Permits an employer to choose to participate in CCHBP and offer employees qualified CCHBP health plans as employer-sponsored health insurance.
Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004 - Authorizes the Secretaries of Education, of State, and of Health and Human Services to award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, Special Olympics for specified education, international, and health activities, including ones promoting Special Olympics and a greater understanding of contributions to society by individuals with intellectual disabilities both within and outside of the United States. Prohibits use of funds under this Act for direct treatment of diseases, medical conditions, or mental health conditions. Sets forth application and annual report requirements. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2005 through 2009.
CTR Modernization Act - Amends federal law governing mandatory reports on currency transactions to exempt depository institutions from the requirement that all domestic financial institutions file a report on every domestic coin and currency transaction. Requires such a depository institution to file a currency transaction report, however, if the transaction involves at least $30,000. Prohibits the Secretary of the Treasury after a certain date from requiring a depository institution to file a currency transaction report regarding a transaction of less than $30,000. Directs the Secretary to: (1) review at least every five years the threshold for reporting currency transactions. And (2) adjust the threshold amount for inflation. Directs the Secretary to prescribe regulations that exempt any depository institution from reporting a currency transaction with a qualified customer. Defines qualified customer as any person that: (1) is incorporated or organized under federal or state law, or registered and eligible to do business within the United States or a state. (2) has maintained a deposit account with the depository institution for at least 12 months. And (3) has engaged, using such account, in multiple currency transactions subject to reporting requirements. Requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations that: (1) provide guidance on identifying currency transactions involving illegal or suspicious activities. And (2) create a list of information that may be disclosed to customers before the reporting of suspicious activity.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award a grant to Teach For America, Inc. to implement and expand its program of recruiting, selecting, training, and supporting new teachers.
Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Small Business Administration (SBA), in order to assist small businesses in successfully completing the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, to award, on a competitive basis, a grant to one or more eligible associations to establish and carry out a program under which one or more qualified mentoring organizations provide technical assistance to small businesses located in low participation areas in order to advise and guide them through the SBIR and STTR processes from application and award through successful program completion. Authorizes appropriations for such grants. Requires a report from the SBA Administrator to the small business committees regarding recommended changes in maximum grant amounts .
Contact Lens Consumer Health Protection Act of 2016 This bill amends the Fairness to Contact Lens Consumers Act to require contact lens sellers to provide a toll-free telephone number and email address that prescribers can use to ask questions about a seller's prescription verification request. Under current law, a prescription is considered verified if the prescriber fails to communicate with the seller within eight business hours after receiving the seller-provided verification information. The bill requires the prescription to be considered unverified until the seller obtains affirmative confirmation of the accuracy of the prescription from the prescriber in cases where a prescriber communicates a question or concern about the accuracy or verification of the prescription to a seller through the toll-free telephone service or email address before the end of that eight-hour period. The bill removes the Federal Trade Commission's authority to adjust the eight-hour period. If a prescriber communicates a question or concern about the accuracy of a prescription before the deadline: (1) the seller shall not fill the prescription, and (2) the prescriber shall provide the seller with an accurate prescription. Sellers must offer prescribers different communication methods that the prescribers may select as their preferred method for verification requests. The bill allows a seller to alter a prescription only if: (1) a private label contact lens is included on the prescription and the same contact lens is manufactured by the same company and sold under multiple labels to individual providers. And (2) the seller fills the prescription with a contact lens of exactly the same material, design, and power as manufactured by that company under another label. Sellers must maintain a database of the issuance and expiration dates of each prescription they receive. The bill prohibits advertisements representing that a contact lens prescription may be filled after the prescription expires. Sellers violating certain prescriber verification requirements are subject to increased penalties of up to $40,000 per violation. Such requirements apply to all contact lens sales in the United States, notwithstanding where the seller is located. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention must examine the potentially adverse effects of seller violations on consumers.
Debbie Blanchard Access to Health Care for Individuals With Disabilities Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to states to develop, maintain, and improve Internet directories of health care providers that are known to have entrances, examination rooms, and examination tables that are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Office on Disability of HHS, to: (1) establish a pilot program to increase the awareness of health care providers of the need to offer accessible environments, examination rooms, and examination tables for individuals with disabilities and to increase voluntary compliance with federal accessibility requirements. And (2) develop and disseminate resources to support individuals with disabilities in finding providers that are accessible to such individuals, which shall include a concise list of questions for individuals with disabilities to ask when calling a health care provider for the first time to schedule an appointment and suggestions for explaining the special needs of such individuals to the provider and for seeking accommodation from the provider. Requires the Secretary to establish a National Advisory Committee on Access to Health Care for Individuals With Disabilities to support implementation of this Act and to ensure interagency coordination of efforts to improve access to care for individuals with disabilities.
Clean Water Affordability Act of 2014 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a comprehensive and integrated planning approach to the obligations concerning permits for pollutant discharges of a publicly owned permittee. Defines such a permittee as a treatment works that is publicly owned or a municipal separate storm sewer system. Requires the approach to such obligations to: (1) include requirements for a schedule under which they may be implemented, and (2) account for changed circumstances in the obligations of the publicly owned permittee. Allows approval of a permit under a state-administered program with a term of more than 5 but no more than 25 years if the permittee has an integrated plan approved under this Act. Requires the Administrator to update the guidance entitled quot. Combined Sewer Overflows Guidance for Financial Capability Assessment and Schedule Development,quot. Dated February 1997, to ensure that the evaluations by the Administrator of financial capability assessment and schedule development meet specified criteria, including criteria used in: (1) assessing financial capability of a community to make investments necessary to make water quality-related improvements, and (2) implementing water quality-related improvements. Revises requirements for capitalization grant agreements with states for establishing water pollution control revolving funds. Requires states to set aside 15 of funds for assistance to municipalities of fewer than 10,000 individuals that meet specified affordability criteria. Authorizes the fund to be used to make loans at terms not to exceed 30 years or the design life of the project to be financed with the proceeds of the loan . Authorizes a state to provide additional subsidization, including forgiveness of principal, negative interest loans, and grants to benefit a municipality that: (1) meets affordability criteria, or (2) does not meet such criteria if the recipient seeks the additional subsidization to benefit ratepayers that will experience a significant hardship from the increase in rates necessary to finance the project or activity for which assistance is sought. Establishes affordability criteria to assist in identifying municipalities that would experience a significant hardship raising the revenue necessary to finance a project or activity eligible for assistance.
Securing America's Facilities, Equipment and Rail: Taking Responsibility for American National Security in Transit Act or the SAFER TRANSIT Act This bill amends the Implementing Recommendations of the 911 Commission Act of 2007 to reauthorize through FY2020 the Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) program and other specified activities related to public transportation security. Thenbsp, Department of Homeland Security (DHS)nbsp. Must: (1) develop a Local Transit Security Instructor Training Program, and (2) take steps necessary to ensure that the Federal Air Marshal Service uses its resources to cover the highest-risk flights. DHS shall direct the Directorate of Science and Technology to prioritize research of scalable, cost-effective technology solutions to detect chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive threats abroad public transportation that are capable of continuous, real-time detecting of, and alerting passengers and operating personnel to, such threats.
Tony Dean Cheyenne River Valley Conservation Act of 2010 - Designates specified lands in South Dakota as wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System. Sets forth requirements for the administration of the wilderness areas, including with respect to military overflight activities, fish and wildlife management, access to private property, US acquisition of lands and interests, protective perimeters and buffer zones, and nonwilderness activities and uses outside of the wilderness areas. Withdraws such areas from specified public land laws, mining laws, and mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws. Permits livestock grazing and the maintenance of related facilities to continue in the wilderness areas in which grazing is established. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to undertake necessary measures for the control and prevention of fire, insects, invasive species, and diseases. Prohibits anything in this Act from: (1) diminishing the rights of Indian tribes to access federal land for tribal activities. Or (2) enhancing or diminishing the authority of the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior to manage prairie dog populations and habitats.
Genetic Fairness Act of 1996 - Prohibits an insurer offering a health plan from: (1) discriminating against an individual or family member on the basis of genetic information or on the basis of an individual's or family member's request for or receipt of genetic services. Or (2) requiring a genetic test or questions relating to genetic information. Requires insurers to disclose enrollee rights. Provides for enforcement by State insurance commissioners, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and private actions.
Primary Care Physician Reentry Act - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a demonstration program to facilitate physician reentry into primary care clinical practice in exchange for the physician providing primary care at an eligible health center for at least two years. Requires the Secretary to award one grant to an entity in each of the 10 administrative regions of HHS to carry out physician reentry projects. Directs grantees to assist reentering physicians by providing training, paying credentialing and other necessary fees, paying salaries, and providing loan repayment and other financial assistance. Requires the Secretary to: (1) assess the need for additional primary care physicians, (2) develop a directory of programs that help physicians reenter clinical practice, (3) disseminate evaluation tools to measure the core competencies of physicians reentering clinical practice, and (4) assist regulatory and credentialing authorities to structure requirements for reentering physicians that ensure patient safety while addressing the burdens on those physicians. Limits civil liability for physicians participating in a reentry project.
Amends title IV (TANF) of the Social Security Act to reestablish for FY2012-FY2013 the Emergency Contingency Fund for State Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Programs for the purpose of grants to states by the Secretary of the Treasury related to: (1) increases in TANF caseloads, (2) increased expenditures for non-recurrent short term benefits, and (3) increased expenditures for subsidized employment. Modifies for FY2011-FY2012 the formula for the pro rata reduction credit in the calculation of the minimum participation rate of all families of a state receiving TANF assistance for any reduction in such rate owing to caseload reductions not required by federal law and not resulting from changes in state eligibility criteria.
Assistance for Orphans and Other Vulnerable Children in Developing Countries Act of 2004 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to authorize the President to provide assistance, including through nongovernmental or international organizations, for basic care for orphans and other vulnerable children in developing countries, including assistance for: (1) community-based care, (2) school food programs, (3) education and employment training, (4) mental health care, (5) protection of inheritance rights. And (6) HIVAIDS care. Directs the President to develop a coordinating strategy for such assistance.
Unrecognized Southeast Alaska Native Communities Recognition and Compensation Act - Amends the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to permit the Native residents of each of the Native Villages of Haines, Ketchikan, Petersburg, Tenakee, and Wrangell, Alaska, to organize as Urban Corporations and to receive certain settlement lands and other compensation pursuant to this Act.
Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1998 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to sell at fair market value: (1) all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to specified leaseholds , subject to valid existing rights. And (2) easements for specified access to such leaseholds. Sets forth requirements for the purchase process. Grants the Canyon Ferry Recreation Association, Incorporated, the right to match the highest bid and purchase the leaseholds. Requires the leasehold purchaser to: (1) contribute 45 percent of the purchase price to each of the Canyon Ferry-Missouri River Trust and the Montana Hunter and Fisherman Access Fund. And (2) pay ten percent of the purchase price to the Secretary for deposit in the Treasury. Gives existing leaseholders an option to purchase leaseholds and nonpurchasing lessees the right to continue to lease the property under the same terms provided in existing leases. Requires the Secretary to encourage establishment of a nonprofit charitable permanent perpetual trust, to be known as the Canyon Ferry-Missouri River Trust, to provide a permanent source of funding to acquire land to conserve fish and wildlife, enhance public hunting and fishing opportunities, and improve public access at the Reservoir and along the Missouri River. Establishes the Montana Hunter and Fisherman Access Fund in the Treasury for purposes of acquiring land in Montana to improve public access to Federal land for hunting or fishing and enhance public hunting and fishing opportunities through the conservation of fish and wildlife.
Training for Realtime Writers Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of Education to make competitive grants to eligible entities to promote training and placement of individuals, including individuals who have completed a court reporting training program, as realtime writers to meet requirements for closed captioning in video programming. Sets forth priorities to be given in the award of such grants. Limits grants to a two-year period and a maximum amount of $1.5 million.
Targeting Child Predators Act of 2016 This bill amends the federal criminal code to establish: (1) a certificationnbsp, process with respectnbsp, to nondisclosure requirements imposed in connection withnbsp. Specified administrative subpoenas, and (2) a judicial review process with respect to the imposition of such requirements.
Insurance Disclosure Act of 1997 - Requires insurers, if a medical exam is required for initial or continued enrollment, to: (1) provide the individual involved with all medical information obtained from the exam. And (2) encourage the individual to make the information available to the individual's physician. Deems the above requirements to be provisions of the Public Health Service Act for purposes of provisions relating to enforcement, preemption, State flexibility, and construction. Provides for a private cause of action, including applying certain civil enforcement provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Supersedes any State law providing less protection to individuals. Amends ERISA to require a group insurance plan, and any insurer offering a policy in connection with such plan, if a medical exam is required for initial or continued eligibility for benefits, to: (1) provide the individual involved with all medical information obtained from the exam. And (2) encourage the individual to make the information available to the individual's physician. Supersedes any State law providing less protection to individuals. Makes an administrator who fails or refuses to comply liable to the individual for up to $100 per day. Allows other relief.
Requires the Governor of the Virgin Islands to appoint a Chief Financial Officer, with the advice and consent of the Legislature of the Virgin Islands, from a list required by this Act. States that if: (1) the Legislature has not confirmed a nominee within 90 days the Governor shall appoint an Acting Chief Financial Officer until the Legislature consents to a Chief Financial Officer. And (2) a Chief Financial Officer has not been appointed within 180 days the Virgin Islands Chief Financial Officer Search Commission shall appoint from such list an Acting Chief Financial Officer until a Chief Financial Officer is appointed. Sets forth the Chief Financial Officer's duties, including: (1) assumption of the functions and authority of the Office of Management and Budget. And (2) budget and financial management systems oversight. Transfers the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to the Chief Financial Officer. Alters the position of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to that of the Deputy Chief Financial Officer. Implements such changes for a five-year period. Establishes the Virgin Islands Chief Financial Officer Search Commission to recommend at least three candidates for the Chief Financial Officer position. Terminates the Commission 210 days after its first meeting. Authorizes appropriations for the installation of a Financial Management System, including appropriate computer hardware and software, to the Government of the Virgin Islands. States that such system shall be available to the Chief Financial Officer, and five years after the date of enactment of this Act, to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of the Virgin Islands. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to permit the Governor and Legislature of the Virgin Islands to delegate or otherwise alter the powers and authority of the Office of Management and Budget established under the laws of the Virgin Islands.
Revises certain OPIC requirements to prohibit the OPIC Board of Directors from voting in favor of any proposed action likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or unprecedented, unless: (1) an environmental impact assessment or initial environmental audit has been completed by the project applicant and made available to the Board of Directors. And (2) such assessment or audit has been made available to the US public, locally affected groups in the host country, and host country nongovernmental organizations. Requires OPIC in conjunction with each Board of Directors' meeting to hold a public hearing in order to afford an opportunity for any person to present views regarding OPIC activities. Revises the composition of the OPIC Board of Directors. Revises the purposes of the Trade and Development Agency to include, with respect to the promotion of US private sector participation in development projects in developing and middle-income countries, special emphasis on economic sectors with significant US export potential, such as energy, transportation, telecommunications, and environment. Directs the Agency to require corporations and other entities to: (1) share the costs of feasibility studies and other project planning services. And (2) reimburse the Agency those funds it has provided, if the corporation or entity concerned succeeds in project implementation. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee (TPCC) to: (1) report on actions taken to eliminate the areas of overlap and duplication identified among Federal export promotion activities. (2) coordinate efforts to sponsor or promote any trade show or trade fair. (3) work with all relevant State and national organizations, including the National Governors' Association, that have established trade promotion offices. And (4) report to Congress on actions taken to promote better coordination among State, Federal, and private sector export promotion activities. Amends the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to change the deadline for TPCC annual reports from September 30 to March 30.
Rent-To-Own Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1993 - Amends the Consumer Credit Protection Act to prohibit a seller in a rent-to-own transaction from taking, receiving, or assessing any interest, finance charge, or other fee for the transaction in excess of that which may be charged under State law which establishes in connection with a credit or retail installment sale for the same or a similar item: (1) a maximum rate or amount of interest, finance charge, or time-price differential that may be charged. (2) the types and maximum amount of fees that a seller may charge. Or (3) the types of credit insurance and the maximum amount of premiums that can be charged for credit insurance. Sets forth requirements regarding: (1) termination, recovery, and other fees, (2) the effect of termination. And (3) guarantees and warranties. Makes the following Federal laws applicable to rent-to-own transactions: (1) the Truth in Lending Act, (2) the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, (3) the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. And (4) the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Requires a seller to include the following information on each item in the seller's place of business that is available for purchase pursuant to a rent-to-own transaction: (1) the cash price. (2) an itemization of services offered and the price of each service, (3) the annual percentage rate, (4) any applicable periodic payment and the number of payments, (5) the total number of payments required to acquire ownership. And (6) whether the item is new or used. Requires a seller to provide such information to a consumer in writing at the time the parties enter into the contract. Prohibits a seller under a rent-to-own contract with a consumer from taking specified actions, such as using threats or coercion to collect amounts alleged due, or unreasonably disclosing information to third parties regarding amounts owed by the consumer. Makes compliance with the requirements of this Act enforceable by the Federal Trade Commission. Deems a violation of this Act to be an unfair or deceptive act or practice in violation of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Subjects sellers who violate the requirements of this Act to civil liability.
Essential Oral Health Care Act of 2009 - Amends title V of the Social Security Act (SSA) to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to eligible entities to purchase portable or mobile dental equipment and to pay for appropriate operational costs, including direct health care or service delivery costs, for the provision of free dental services to underserved populations that are delivered in a manner consistent with state licensing laws. Amends SSA title XIX (Medicaid) to increase the federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) for states implementing equal access requirements that ensure that individuals enrolled in the state Medicaid plan have access to oral health care services to the same extent as such services are available to the population of the state.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a 5 excise tax on persons providing a covered passenger cruise. Defines quot, covered passenger cruisequot. As a voyage of a commercial passenger cruise vessel that extends over one or more nights and during which passengers embark and disembark the vessel in the United States. Defines quot, passenger cruise vesselquot. As any passenger vessel having berth or stateroom accommodations for at least 250 passengers and that is used in the business of carrying passengers for hire. Establishes in the Treasury the Intermodal Infrastructure Trust Fund to be funded by the per passenger excise tax. Allows expenditures from such Fund for specified transportation improvements.
Amends the Commodity Exchange Act to instruct the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to maintain a liaison with one another. Places transactions in certain energy or metal commodities within the regulatory and enforcement framework governing futures trading and foreign transactions . Places electronic trading facilities under the regulatory oversight of the CFTC, including filing, recordkeeping, reporting and capital requirements. Prohibits contracts designed to defraud or mislead. Amends the Department of Energy Organization Act to mandate that the following agencies hold quarterly meetings to discuss conditions in energy trading markets and any changes in Federal law needed to regulate them: FERC, CFTC, the Securities Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Reserve Board.
Medicare HMO Protection Act of 1998 - Amends part C (MedicareChoice) of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to delay the effectiveness of a MedicareChoice organization's termination of its plan with respect to all individuals in an area, if: (1) the termination would cause an imminent and serious health risk to enrollees. (2) the termination would result in a significant reduction in the MedicareChoice plans available in the area affected. Or (3) the organization terminating coverage is offering MedicareChoice plans in contract areas close to the area affected without suffering considerable financial losses. Amends Medicare part C with regard to contracts with MedicareChoice organizations to provide for extension of the initial MedicareChoice contract period from one year to three years and to revise certain requirements for notification of enrollees at the time of contract termination.
Student Medical Access Raising Test Scores Health Act - SMARTS Health Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make demonstration grants to expand school-based health programs. Directs the Secretary to coordinate such grants program with other specified health programs. Limits the making of such grants to the following eligible entities, for expansion of the following school-based health programs: (1) the University of Maryland, for its program in the Baltimore, Maryland, vicinity. (2) the local educational agency for its program in an independent school district in the Dallas, Texas, vicinity. (3) the University of New Mexico for its program in New Mexico. (4) the University of California, Los Angeles, for its program in the Los Angeles, California, vicinity. (5) the Child Study Center Outpatient Clinic, Yale University, for its program in the New Haven, Connecticut, vicinity. And (6) the University of Illinois at Chicago, for its program in the Chicago, Illinois, vicinity. Directs the Secretary, in making such a grant, to establish goals for the program in terms of health outcomes for the children served.
Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort Miamis National Historical Site Act - Establishes the Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort Miamis National Historical Site in Ohio. Authorizes the Governor of Ohio to designate, from a specified list of candidates, a management entity which shall draw up a management plan for approval by the Secretary of the Interior. Prohibits the Secretary or any other Federal agency from making a limitation on fishing, hunting, or trapping a condition of the determination of eligibility for, or receipt of, assistance under this Act.
Federal Land Exchange Improvement Act of 1995 - Amends the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 to increase the value of public land available for approximately equal value exchanges out of Federal ownership. Requires: (1) funds received by the Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior to be deposited in a special land exchange Treasury fund, subject to a monetary ceiling. And (2) certain environmental and endangered species related activities as part of the exchange process. Exempts public or National Forest System lands minor boundary adjustment exchanges from equal value requirements. Amends Federal law to eliminate the exchange restriction on Oregon and California railroad grant lands. Amends Federal law to permit National Forest land exchanges for public school purposes only if the land was in use during the five-year period ending on the date of conveyance. Amends the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act to waive the public use requirement for exchanges under such Act.
Voter Eligibility Verification Pilot Program Act of 1998 - Directs the Attorney General to establish a voter eligibility pilot confirmation program to respond to, and maintain records of, State and local election officials' inquiries to verify a voter registrant's citizenship. Terminates such program on September 30, 2001. Provides for: (1) an initial confirmation or nonconfirmation by the Commissioner of Social Security. And (2) in the case of an initial nonconfirmation, a secondary verification process by the Attorney General. Requires such program to: (1) be voluntary, (2) provide safeguards against discrimination. And (3) be applied, at a minimum, in California, New York, Texas, Florida, and Illinois. Directs the Commissioner of Social Security and the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service to develop methods to confirm the reliability of the information provided. Prohibits Federal utilization of program information and related systems for purposes other than those authorized by this Act. Sets forth provisions regarding actions by officials unable to confirm an applicant's citizenship with respect to notification, registration, and ineligible voter removal programs. Authorizes State and local use of social security account numbers for purposes of this Act. Sets forth reporting requirements for the Attorney General and the Commissioner of Social Security. Authorizes appropriations.
Check Cashing Act of 1995 - Requires any person other than a depository institution to obtain a State license or registration as a prerequisite to conducting a check cashing business. Prescribes guidelines under which the Federal Trade Commission may approve a State check cashing business licensing or registration system. Cites circumstances under which an insured depository institution or credit union may not refuse to cash a government check presented by a payee. Declares that the National Credit Union Administration Board may not prohibit any federally chartered credit union from dispensing benefits under a Federal or State assistance program that are authorized to be dispensed by a check cashing service. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to the Congress on: (1) the effectiveness of the dispensation of benefits under Federal and State assistance programs through federally chartered credit unions. And (2) the effects of requiring the use of a debit card system for making all federal benefit payments, as well as other innovative ways to upgrade current methods by which the Federal Government delivers benefit payment checks.
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Policy Act of 1993 - Declares that, in order to end nuclear proliferation and reduce current nuclear arsenals and supplies of weapons-usable nuclear materials, it shall be US policy to pursue the following objectives: (1) encourage the Ukraine to ratify the START I treaty and Ukraine and Kazakhstan to vote to accede to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as non-nuclear weapon states. (2) encourage Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan to remove all nuclear weapons from their territory, accept International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards over nuclear facilities, and implement effective controls on nuclear exports. (3) reach an agreement with the Russian Federation to deactivate weapons to be withdrawn under START I and II, place all fissile material from weapons under bilateral or international controls, and arrange for inspections and data exchanges. (4) prepare for the ratification of START II by seeking the exchange of information. (5) conclude a multilateral comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty by early 1995. (6) ratify START II in the United States and encourage the Russian Federation to do the same, (7) conclude multilateral agreements to reduce nuclear arsenals. (8) reach agreement with the Russian Federation to halt the production of fissile material for weapons purposes and other worldwide agreements respecting such materials and the placement of all nuclear facilities under IAEA safeguards, (9) strengthen IAEA safeguards and nuclear export controls. (10) reduce incentives for countries to pursue the acquisition of nuclear weapons by seeking to reduce regional tensions. (11) support the extension of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty at the 1995 conference. (12) adopt a US policy of no first use of nuclear weapons, reach agreement with other nuclear weapon states to adopt such a policy, and assist any country which is a party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty should weapons be initiated against such country. (13) conclude an agreement with the Russian Federation to dismantle all tactical nuclear weapons. And (14) sign the appropriate protocols to the South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty.
Community Partnership Act of 2015 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) an Office for Community Partnerships, headed by an Assistant Secretary for Community Partnerships. The Assistant Secretary shall be responsible for: leading strategic and supportive efforts by DHS components and offices to counter violent extremism. Developing a digital engagement strategy that expands the outreach efforts of DHS to counter violent extremist messaging. Serving as the primary DHS representative in coordinating countering violent extremism efforts with other federal agencies and nongovernmental organizations and in coordinating with the Department of State on international countering violent extremism issues. Providing guidance, in coordination with the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), regarding the use of grants made to state, local, and tribal governments under the Urban Area Security Initiative and the State Homeland Security Grant Program under the allowable uses guidelines related to countering violent extremism. Developing a plan to expand philanthropic support for domestic efforts related to countering violent extremism. And administering grants to counter extremism, as authorized below. DHS may award grants or cooperative agreements directly, based on need, to states, local governments, tribal governments, nonprofit organizations, or institutions of higher education to support the efforts of local communities in the United States to prevent and counter violent extremism.
Rocky Mountain Front Heritage Act of 2013 - Establishes the Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Management Area in Montana consisting of approximately 195,073 acres of federal land managed by Forest Service and 13,087 acres of federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). Permits the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to Forest Service land or the Secretary of the Interior with respect to BLM land to only allow uses of the Conservation Management Area that would conserve, protect, and enhance the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations of the recreational, scenic, historical, cultural, fish, wildlife, roadless, and ecological values of the Area. Sets forth provisions for the management of the Conservation Management Area regarding motorized vehicles and vegetation management projects. Allows the Secretary concerned to permit grazing within the Conservation Management Area if it was established before enactment of this Act. Designates specified land within the Lewis and Clark National Forest in Montana as wilderness. Adds the land to the National Wilderness Preservation System. Permits livestock grazing and the maintenance of existing grazing facilities to continue if it was established before enactment of this Act. Authorizes the Secretary concerned to take necessary measures to control fires, insects, and diseases. Directs the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to prepare a comprehensive management strategy for the prevention, control, and eradication of noxious weeds in the Rocky Mountain Ranger District of the Lewis and Clark National Forest. Authorizes USDA to conduct a study for improving nonmotorized recreation trail opportunities, including mountain bicycling, on land within the District that is not designated as wilderness. States that nothing in this Act affects Montana's jurisdiction over fish and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting and fishing. States that nothing in this Act affects the jurisdiction of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) respecting the airspace above the wilderness or the Conservation Management Area nor the continued use, maintenance, and repair of the Benchmark (3U7) airstrip.
Meat and Poultry Products Traceability and Safety Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act to direct that cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, mules and other equines, and poultry presented for slaughter for human consumption, and the carcasses or parts of carcasses and the meat and food products of those animals, shipped in interstate commerce be identified in a manner that enables the Secretary of Agriculture to trace: (1) each animal to any location at which the animal was held at any time before slaughter. And (2) each carcass or part of a carcass and food product forward from slaughter through processing and distribution to the ultimate consumer. Authorizes the Secretary to prohibit or restrict entry to a slaughtering establishment of an animal not so identified. Directs the Secretary to establish a traceability system for all stages of production, processing, and distribution of meat and meat food products and poultry and poultry food products.
Immigration Enforcement Review Commission Act - Establishes the Immigration Enforcement Review Commission, composed of a Board of Commissioners, an Investigations Office, and a Community Outreach Office. States that the Commission shall: (1) investigate civil rights abuse complaints against the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Customs Service or their employees, and (2) make policy recommendations as appropriate.
Title II: Visa Fairness Commission - Establishes in the Immigration and Naturalization Service the Visa Fairness Commission, which shall gather data on US embassy and port of entry economic and racial profiling. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to waive the visa fee for aliens who can prove in forma pauperis status.
Children's Environmental Protection Act of 1996 - Amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to state US policy regarding the adequacy of protection of children and other vulnerable subpopulations from exposure to environmental pollutants. Defines vulnerable subpopulations to include children, pregnant women, the elderly, individuals with a history of serious illness, and other subpopulations identified by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as likely to experience elevated health risks from environmental pollutants. Directs the Administrator to: (1) work with each State, including by making grants, to develop a family right-to-know initiative requiring disclosure of the details of application of a pollutant in a public area accessible to children, State reports of such information, and provision of data for a nationwide survey. (2) identify and make publicly available a list of hazardous substances and pesticides commonly used in schools and parks, (3) create a list of substances with high hazard risks. (4) develop and issue an EPA-approved warning sign and label for posting in such areas. And (5) prohibit a school or park from using any pollutant on the high hazard risk list. Directs the Administrator and the Secretaries of Agriculture and of Health and Human Services to: (1) coordinate and implement research studies of the physiological and pharmacokinetic differences in the effects and toxicity of pesticides and other pollutants on children and other vulnerable subpopulations. (2) conduct surveys and research to document differences between children and adults with respect to exposure. And (3) report to the Congress. Directs the Administrator to evaluate environmental health risks to children and vulnerable subpopulations in all risk assessments and characterizations, environmental or public health standards, or general regulatory decisions and develop and use a separate assessment with respect to vulnerable subpopulations. Requires a report to the Congress. Requires public availability, subject to restrictions, of information concerning any test of a pesticide, pesticide residue, or other pollutant to determine potential levels of exposure or health effects. Authorizes appropriations.
Violent Juvenile Criminal Records Act of 1997 - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to direct the Attorney General to make incentive grants to States and local governments to: (1) establish programs to obtain fingerprints and photographs of juveniles arrested for certain violent or serious criminal offenses. And (2) establish, develop, update, or upgrade the criminal history records of such entities to include arrest, detention, and disposition records, fingerprints, photographs, and barcodes for juveniles arrested or detained for such offenses. Requires such information to be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for access in the same manner as records for adult criminal histories. Provides for: (1) grant application requirements. (2) the allocation of grant funds according to a specified formula. (3) appropriations for such activities through the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund. And (4) the authorization of appropriations for FY 1998 through 2002.
Savings Enhancement for Education in College Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow a tax credit for contributions to qualified tuition plans. And (2) allow an exclusion, up to $600, from the gross income of an employee for employer contributions to a qualified tuition program.
This bill amends the Federal Reserve Act to revise the formula for subscription of national banking associations to the stock of their regional Federal Reserve Bank. Instead of one-sixth of an association's subscription to be payable on call by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, a member bank shall pay one-twelfth of its subscription when the Federal Reserve Board directs, and the remainder subject to the call of the Board. If a member bank has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less, however, it may elect to pay one-half of its subscription instead of one-twelfth, but only once, and only within the first year after it becomes a member bank. The bill makes similar revisions to the formula for an increase in a member bank's capital stock or surplus. The Board may only call the subscription of a member bank if the aggregate amount of surplus funds of the Federal Reserve Banks is exhausted. A member bank may elect to have called amounts returned to it if the aggregate amount of surplus funds of the Federal Reserve Banks is $1 billion or more. The Board shall make annually inflation adjustments to the dollar amounts of total consolidated assets specified in the Act and in this bill to reflect the change in the Gross Domestic Product Price Index, published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of the Department of Commerce.
Directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to convey at current state of agricultural use market prices specified lands formerly part of the Fort Bayard Military Reservation, Grant County, New Mexico, to the Village of Santa Clara, the City of Bayard, and Grant County, New Mexico, in tracts of not less than 40 acres, for business and community development. Requires approval of all parties for any such conveyance. Provides that the Secretary shall be responsible for the costs and recovery of any historic or prehistoric cultural properties located on such lands.
This bill instructs the Department of Defense (DOD) to notify the congressional defense committees within 48 hours after any sensitive military cyber operation has been conducted. A sensitive military cyber operation is an offensive cyber operation or a defensive cyber operation outside DOD's information networks to defeat an ongoing or imminent threat that: (1) is carried out by the US Armed Forces or by a foreign partner in coordination with them, and (2) is intended to cause effects outside of a geographic location where the Armed Forces are involved in hostilities. DOD must also notify such committees within 48 hours after: (1) the completion of any review of the legality under international law of a cyber capability that is intended for use as a weapon. And (2) the use as a weapon of any cyber capability that has been approved under international law. Such notification requirements shall not apply to: (1) a training exercise conducted with the consent of all of the nations where its intended effects will occur, or (2) a covert action.
Oil Subsidy Elimination Act of 2006 - Requires oil companies with annual gross receipts of $1 billion or more and average daily crude oil production levels of at least 500,000 barrels to revalue, according to a specified formula, their 2005 LIFO inventories of crude oil, natural gas, or other petroleum products. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to deny large integrated oil companies: (1) amortization of geological and geophysical expenditures. And (2) foreign tax credits for certain payments made to foreign countries. Repeals provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 relating to: (1) expensing of crude oil refinery property. (2) exemptions from limitations on oil depletion deductions for certain small crude oil refiners, and (3) amortization of geological and geophysical expenditures.
West Nile Virus and Arboviral Disease Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish a temporary program for West Nile Virus and related arboviral diseases, which may include grants by the Secretary of Health and Human Services to States for the prevention and control of such diseases. Directs grant funds to be used for: (1) the development, implementation, and evaluation by States and localities of community-based, comprehensive mosquito control plans. And (2) the development and implementation of programs on medical entomology, arbovirology, and other vector-borne diseases. Includes a 50 percent matching requirement for such grants. Requires 85 percent of grant funds to any State to be expended locally. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and with appropriate consultation, to develop a plan, together with standard operating procedures, to serve as a guideline for State and local mosquito control programs. Sets forth elements that such plan should include, including programs to: (1) identify new human cases of disease. And (2) provide laboratory support for testing. Sets a termination date of September 30, 2004, for the temporary program. Directs the President to expand, intensify, and enhance research for various activities, including to: (1) identify and develop methods of controlling the population of insects that transmit to humans diseases that have significant adverse health consequences. And (2) develop rapid screening tools for West Nile Virus in blood or organs.
Paul Wellstone Mental Health Equitable Treatment Act of 2005 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Public Health Service Act to prohibit a group health plan or group health coverage that provides both medical and surgical benefits and mental health benefits from imposing treatment limitations or financial requirements on the mental health benefits unless comparable limitations or requirements are imposed on medical and surgical benefits. Excludes such requirements for plans and coverage for small employers. Allows a plan or coverage that provides in-network mental health benefits to provide out-of-network mental health benefits using treatment limitations or financial requirements that are not comparable to those applied to medical-surgical benefits if the in-network mental health benefits are provided at parity with medical-surgical benefits and with reasonable access. Requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to: (1) study the effects of this Act on health insurance costs and access and quality of health care. And (2) provide a cost estimation of extending such requirements to the treatment of substance abuse and chemical dependency.
Veterans Back and Spinal Therapy Act - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to establish a two-year pilot program to: (1) provide covered veterans with non-invasive techniques to treat spinal, back, and musculoskeletal injuries and pain. And (2) use an evidence-based medicine framework to assess the effectiveness of such techniques. Includes as a covered veteran one who: (1) has a service-connected spinal, back, or musculoskeletal injury. Or (2) is eligible for VA hospital or nursing home care or medical services by reason of active duty in a theater of combat operations during a period of war after the Persian Gulf War. Requires the Secretary, in selecting program participants, to give a preference to veterans who served in Operations Enduring Freedom, Iraqi Freedom, or New Dawn.
Volunteer Protection Act of 1995 - Prescribes circumstances under which volunteers working for nonprofit organizations or government entities shall be immune from personal financial liability for acts on behalf of the organization or entity. Sets forth exceptions and conditions that a State may impose on the granting of such immunity.
Minimum Tax Reform Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise adjustments in computing alternative minimum taxable income and allow companies to use the 150-percent declining balance method to compute depreciation, except for environmental assets. Allow s a 200 percent declining balance method in the case of computer or peripheral equipment. Allows companies to use pre-1993 minimum tax credits against alternative tax liability for up to 50 percent of that liability, with limitations. Allows businesses to reduce up to 25 percent of their minimum tax liabilty with general business credits.
Veterans' Long-Term Care Enhancement Act of 1999 - Includes noninstitutional extended care services within the definition of medical services authorized to be provided to eligible veterans. Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide assisted living services to a veteran who is eligible to receive hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary care, and to the spouse of such veteran. Requires such veteran and spouse to agree to reimburse the United States for the cost of such care. Repeals provisions authorizing respite care for such veterans. Directs the Secretary to carry out three pilot programs to determine the feasibility and practicability of various methods of meeting the long-term care needs of eligible veterans. Requires each program to be carried out at two Veterans Integrated Service Networks. Requires services provided to include a comprehensive array of health care services and other services that meet such needs, including case management services. Directs the Secretary to emphasize the provision of preventive care services, including screening and education. Requires one pilot program to be carried out: (1) directly through facilities and personnel of the Department of Veterans Affairs. (2) through a combination of Department facilities and personnel and services provided under cooperative arrangements with public and private nongovernmental entities. And (3) through cooperative arrangements with non-Department entities. Outlines provisions concerning: (1) payment for services under the pilot programs, (2) required data collection. And (3) annual reports from the Secretary to Congress for the duration of the programs. Terminates such programs three years after their commencement.
Working Families Tax Protection Act of 2012 - Extends through 2013 the terminating date for provisions of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 relating to: (1) individual income tax rate reductions, (2) tax benefits related to children and adoption, (3) reduction of the marriage penalty, and (4) education assistance. Denies such extension to taxpayers whose income exceeds $500,000. Extends through 2013 the terminating date for provisions of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 relating to reductions in the tax rate for dividend and capital gain income. Denies such extension to taxpayers whose income is taxed at the maximum income tax rate. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend through 2013: (1) the increased American Opportunity tax credit, (2) the increase in the refundable portion of the child tax credit, and (3) the increased earned income tax credit percentage for three or more qualifying children.
Free File Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of the Treasury to continue to operate the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Free File Program. The program must work with state government agencies to enhance and expand the use of the program, while continuing to: provide free commercial-type online individual income tax preparation and electronic filing services to the lowest 70 of taxpayers by income. Provide all taxpayers with a basic, online electronic fillable forms utility. And work with the private sector to provide the free tax preparation and electronic filing services. Treasury must work with the private sector through the program to identify and implement innovative new program features to improve and simplify the taxpayer's experience with completing and filing individual income tax returns. The IRS and members of the tax software and electronic industry involved in the program must support and promote improvements within the program by mutually testing, piloting, and offering innovative solutions to: simplify the tax system, reduce compliance and reporting burdens, increase tax return accuracy through financial data authentication, strengthen the tax system against fraud through cybersecurity collaboration, avoid duplication, and maximize the use of electronic technology.
Caregiver Assistance and Resource Enhancement Act - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to develop and carry out a program of support services for family and non-family caregivers providing noninstitutional extended care to disabled veterans enrolled in the VA health care system. Requires such support services to include: (1) educational sessions, stipends, and access to support services, (2) counseling and related services, (3) respite care, (4) medical care for family caregivers. And (5) travel expenses in connection with the outpatient care of such veterans. Requires the Secretary to: (1) conduct outreach to inform disabled veterans and their families of services available for caregivers, as well as the ability of a caregiver to be trained and certified by a home health care agency in order to be paid for providing such services. (2) submit to the congressional veterans' committees a plan for implementation of such program. And (3) report annually thereafter for five years on plan implementation. Makes counseling and mental health services available to family and non-family caregivers of enrolled veterans. Directs the Secretary to ensure that respite care meets the needs of the veteran receiving such care, including 24-hour home respite care, and is appropriate with respect to the veteran's age. Authorizes the provision of medical care through the VA for family caregivers of eligible veterans, if the caregiver is without health insurance and ineligible for other public health insurance. Defines a family caregiver as an individual who provides care to a veteran who was deployed in support of Operations Iraqi Freedom or Enduring Freedom and are determined by the Secretary to: (1) have a severe service-connected disability or illness. (2) be in need of caregiver services since, without such services, the veteran would require hospitalization, nursing home care, or other residential institutional care. And (3) be unable to carry out the activities of daily living. Authorizes a lodging and subsistence allowance for family caregivers of eligible veterans described above, to cover the time in which the veteran is traveling to and from a treatment facility as well as the duration of the treatment period. Requires the Secretary to: (1) at least once every three years, design and conduct a survey of family and non-family caregivers. (2) consider survey findings when carrying out programs related to caregivers. And (3) report to the veterans' committees on survey results and services made available to caregivers.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Labor Provisions Title II: Tax Provisions Small Business Emancipation Act of 1996 - Title I: Labor Provisions - States that the regular rate at which a small business employee (SBE) is employed shall not include sums paid under a performance plan as a reward for meeting or exceeding productivity, quality, efficiency, or sales goals. Authorizes an SBE to receive, in lieu of overtime compensation, compensatory time off at a rate of not less than one and one-half hours off for each hour of employment for which overtime compensation would have been paid. Limits the annual accrual of compensatory time to 240 hours. Provides for the payment of unused compensatory time upon termination. Authorizes a small business employer to establish compressed and flexible work schedules. States that a small business shall not be required to disclose to any regulatory agency any information obtained through a voluntary internal audit. Exempts laborers or mechanics employed by a small business from the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act. Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act to: (1) direct the Secretary of Labor, in establishing occupational safety and health (OSH) standards, to consider the relationship between the costs and benefits of a standard and its effect on small businesses. (2) authorize the Secretary to waive up to 100 percent of an OSH violation penalty to be paid by a small business to the extent that the employer uses the amount to correct the violation. And (3) provide that an employee participation committee formed to attempt to reduce the number of OSH hazards shall not be considered a labor organization for purposes of specified labor representation provisions. Directs the Secretary to: (1) establish and implement a program to provide technical assistance and consultative services for small business employers and employees concerning worksite OSH and compliance with the Act. (2) establish an award to be periodically made to small businesses which have implemented effective approaches to addressing OSH in the workplace. And (3) prepare and submit to the President and the Congress a report on the progress, findings, and conclusions of activities conducted under this section, along with recommendations for modifications. Prohibits a small business employer from granting preferential treatment to any individual or group on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Title II: Tax Provisions - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exclude from the gross estate the value of a qualified small business interest of a decedent. (2) exclude a qualified cash or deferred arrangement from the definition of a top heavy plan. And (3) provide that a trust shall not be disqualified from consideration as a qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock-bonus plan by reason of a good faith administrative error.
Federal Emergency Management Agency Restoration Act - Establishes the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as a cabinet-level independent establishment in the executive branch that is responsible for emergency preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation for all hazards, including major disasters, acts of terrorism, and other emergencies. Requires the FEMA Director to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, from among persons who have extensive experience in emergency preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation for all hazards, including major disasters, acts of terrorism, and other emergencies.
Judgment Evading Foreign States Accountability Act of 2008 - Directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to deny a judgment evading foreign state access to US capital markets unless the proceeds of such borrowing or sale are to be used to satisfy in full all final judgments that form the basis for such designation as a judgment evading foreign state. Requires: (1) a proposal to extend bilateral or multilateral assistance to a judgment evading state to bear notice that such state is a judgment evading state. And (2) the Secretary of the Treasury to report annually to Congress identifying each such state.
Specifies the distribution and use of funds appropriated on September 19, 1989, in satisfaction of an award granted to the Quinault Indian Nation under Dockets 772-71, 773-71, 774-71, and 775-71 before the United States Claims Court. Requires distribution and deposit of such funds into three accounts , to be established by the Tribe, maintained separately, and audited annually. Requires use of the Account for Principal Amount to establish a Permanent Fisheries Fund. Exempts the United States from any trust responsibility or liability for funds upon their disbursement to the Tribe.
Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to require states to evaluate the need for broadband conduit as part of any covered highway construction project , in consultation with telecommunications providers. If the evaluation reveals a need in the next 15 years for broadband conduit beneath hard surfaces to be constructed by the project, the conduit shall be installed. DOT shall establish standards to carry out installation requirements that consider: the ability to accommodate broadband installation without impacting the safety, operations, and maintenance of the highway facility, its users, or others, population density in the area, the type of highway involved. And existing broadband access in the area. DOT shall ensure that: an appropriate number of broadband conduits are installed along such highway to accommodate multiple broadband providers, the size of conduit is consistent with industry best practices and sufficient to accommodate potential demand, hand holes and manholes for fiber access and pulling such conduit are placed at intervals consistent with industry best practices, installed conduit includes a pull tape and is capable of supporting fiber optic cable placement techniques consistent with industry best practices, installed conduit is placed at a depth consistent with industry best practices and cable separation requirements of electrical codes, and any requesting broadband provider has access to each broadband conduit installed on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis for a charge not to exceed a cost-based rate. DOT may waive the requirements of this Act upon determining that the waiver is appropriate based upon: a showing of undue burden, a determination that the installation of conduit beneath hard surfaces is not necessary based on the availability of existing broadband infrastructure, or a cost-benefit analysis.
Earmark Transparency Act of 2010 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require the Clerk of the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate to establish jointly a free public searchable website, listing all requests by Members of Congress for congressionally directed spending items . Requires each congressional committee, within five calendar days of receipt of a request for a congressional earmark from a Member of Congress, to provide to the Clerk and the Secretary, as applicable, the initial required information regarding that request that is required to be placed on the website. Makes it out of order to consider any legislation unless it meets the requirements of this Act.
Water Quality Conservation Act of 2017 This bill amends the Food Security Act of 1985 to authorize the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to carry out a precision conservation pilot program to provide grants to up to 10 states to assist producers with projects that: increase nutrient retention in soil, reduce soil erosion, reduce nutrient loss from soil, improve soil health, and improve water quality. States that receive grants under the program must use the funds only to: educate and recruit agricultural producers to participate in the program, provide technical and financial assistance to producers that elect to participate in the program, monitor and analyze the effectiveness of precision conservation plans, and encourage the use of precision agriculture technology to achieve conservation benefits. States that receive grants must submit to USDA and producers reports regarding the effectiveness of the conservation plans and grants. USDA must use the data to establish and maintain a publicly available soil nutrient retention database.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Retailer Integrity Title II: Recipient Integrity Title III: Implementation and Effective Dates Title I: Retailer Integrity - Amends the Food Stamp Act of 1977 to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) to establish specific time periods for: (1) retail food stores and wholesale food concerns (stores) to apply for food stamp program (program) participation. And (2) prohibition of program participation based on lack of business integrity. Includes income and sales tax information among the types of eligibility verification information which may be requested. Establishes a six-month reapplication waiting period for a store that does not meet participation requirements. Authorizes suspension of a store pending administrative and judicial review. Provides for disqualification of a store that is disqualified from the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Provides for permanent disqualification of a store that knowingly submits a falsified application. Expands civil and criminal forfeiture for specified violations of the Act. Amends the Social Security Act as amended by the Social Security Administrative Reform Act of 1994, and the Internal Revenue Code as added to by the Social Security Administrative Reform Act of 1994, to authorize information sharing with State WIC enforcement instrumentalities. Amends the Act to expand the definition of coupon. Title II: Recipient Integrity - Amends the Act to increase ineligibility penalties for program violations. Makes the collection of overissuance of coupons from Federal pay or Federal tax refunds mandatory. Title III: Implementation and Effective Dates - Makes the provisions of this Act effective upon enactment unless otherwise provided for.
Social Security Protection Act of 2011 - Makes it out of order in the Senate or the House of Representatives to consider any legislation that: (1) increases the retirement age or the early retirement age for individuals receiving benefits under title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act on or after the enactment of this Act, (2) reduces cost-of-living increases for them, (3) reduces benefit payment amounts for them. Or (4) creates private retirement accounts for any of the OSADI benefits they receive.
Energy Security and Foreign Policy Integration Act of 2007 - Amends the National Security Act of 1947 to add the Secretary of Energy as a member of the National Security Council (NSC). Establishes within the NSC a Directorate of Energy as the lead government entity for formulating and coordinating US national energy security policy. Directs the President, every four years, to: (1) conduct a quadrennial national energy security review which shall set forth national energy security strategy and establish short- and long-term goals to achieve energy security, and (2) report to Congress on such review.
USDA Debarment Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out debarment procedures against persons materially violating nonprocurement program regulations.
Securing America's Facilities, Equipment and Rail: Taking Responsibility for American National Security in Transit Act or the SAFER TRANSIT Act This bill amends the Implementing Recommendations of the 911 Commission Act of 2007 to reauthorize through FY2020 the Visible Intermodal Prevention and Response (VIPR) program and other specified activities related to public transportation security. Thenbsp, Department of Homeland Securitynbsp. Must: (1) develop a Local Transit Security Instructor Training Program, and (2) take steps necessary to ensure that the Federal Air Marshal Service uses its resources to cover the highest-risk flights.
Buy American Motor Vehicles Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit, for an individual who purchases a new domestic passenger vehicle, of: (1) 15 percent of the purchase price, in the case of a vehicle purchased in 1993. And (2) 7.5 percent, in the case of a vehicle purchased in 1994. Limits the credit to $2,000 in 1993 and $1,000 after such year. Allows an individual qualifying for such credit, at the time of such purchase, to assign the right to the credit to the retail dealer in exchange for a price reduction of equal value. Allows the retailer dealer to assign such right to the manufacturer of the vehicle. Allows manufacturers to use such credit against their tax liability. Defines a domestic parts manufacturer as one with manufacturing facilities within the United States or Canada and who is not Japanese or Japanese-affiliated.
Native American Veteran Home Loan Act - Amends Federal veterans law to: (1) convert into a permanent program the pilot program under which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may make direct housing loans to Native American veterans. (2) limit the amount of any increase in the principal amount of any direct housing loan made to a Native American. And (3) extend the eligibility for such direct loans to a non-Native American veteran who is the spouse of a Native American.
United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 - States that it is US policy to: (1) reaffirm the commitment to Israel's security as a Jewish state, (2) support Israel's right to self-defense and help Israel preserve its qualitative military edge, (3) expand military and civilian cooperation, (4) assist in a negotiated settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict that results in two states living side-by-side in peace and security, and (5) veto any one-sided anti-Israel U. N. Security Council resolutions. Expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should take specified actions to assist in Israel's defense, including: (1) enhancing development and production of joint missile defense systems, (2) providing appropriate defense articles and services, (3) strengthening security initiatives and bilateral training exercises, and (4) encouraging an expanded role for Israel with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Amends the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 to extend authority to transfer certain obsolete or surplus Department of Defense (DOD) items to Israel. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to extend authority to make additions to foreign-based defense stockpiles. Amends the Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2003 to extend specified loan guarantee authority to Israel. Directs the President to submit reports to Congress regarding: (1) the status of Israel's qualitative military edge. (2) actions that could improve the process related to Israel's purchase of F-35 aircraft. (3) cooperation between the United States and Israel in homeland security, counter-terrorism, maritime security, energy, cyber-security, and other related areas. And (4) actions to integrate Israel into the defense of the Eastern Mediterranean.
Delphi Pensions Restoration Act of 2012 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 to require transfer to the Delphi Retired Employees Fund of all proceeds from the sale or transfer, after enactment of this Act, of any stock, warrant, or financial instrument acquired by the Secretary of the Treasury in connection with providing financial assistance to the General Motors Corporation (GM). Establishes the Delphi Retired Employees Fund in the Treasury for payments to eligible employees separated from Delphi Corporation who participated in a now terminated Delphi-sponsored defined benefit plan, but who are not covered by any agreement between GM and participants in another defined benefit plan under which GM pays covered participants nonforfeitable benefits equal to the amount they would have been entitled to receive under the plan but for the plan's termination. Makes the Fund available to pay each eligible separated employee an amount equal to such nonforfeitable benefits, reduced by any amounts already paid the employee by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) under the Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
National Marine Scholarship Act of 2005 - Directs the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to establish a National Marine Scholarship Program for graduate students in the fields of marine science. Requires scholarship recipients to agree to serve, for a certain period after their masters or doctoral program, as a full-time employee of NOAA or another Federal agency with programs related to the marine environment.
Antitrust Criminal Penalty Enhancement and Reform Act of 2003 - Provides that in a civil action alleging a violation of the Sherman Act or of any similar State law based on conduct covered by an antitrust leniency agreement, the amount of damages recovered by a claimant from an applicant and cooperating individuals who satisfy this Act's requirements shall not exceed that portion of the actual damages sustained by the claimant that is attributable to the commerce done by the applicant in the goods or services affected by the violation . Provides that an applicant or cooperating individual satisfies this Act's requirements if the court determines that such applicant or individual has provided satisfactory cooperation to the claimant, including: (1) providing a full account of all facts known that are potentially relevant to the civil action. And (2) furnishing all potentially relevant items that are in the applicant's or cooperating individual's possession or control. Amends: (1) the Sherman Act to increase maximum prison sentences and raise the maximum fine for individuals for restraint of trade among the States, monopolizing trade, and other restraints of trade. And (2) the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act to require the court to consider specified factors, including the competitive impact of a judgment.
Saving and Investment Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit an income tax deduction in the amount of dividends paid by domestic corporations, except S corporations, regulated investment companies, real estate investment trusts, and personal holding companies. Repeals the income tax deductions currently permitted in connection with: (1) dividends received by a corporation. (2) dividends received by a corporation on the preferred stock of a public utility. And (3) dividends paid by a public utility on its preferred stock. Increases from 80 percent to 85 percent the deductible percentage of amounts received by a corporation from a qualified ten-percent owned foreign corporation.
Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act of 2009 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop and make available to local educational agencies, schools, early childhood education programs, and other interested entities voluntary guidelines to develop plans for individuals to manage the risk of food allergy and anaphylaxis in schools and early childhood education programs. Directs that such guidelines address: (1) parental obligation to provide the documentation of their child's allergies. (2) the creation of an individual food allergy management plan for each such child, (3) communication between schools or programs and emergency medical services, (4) reduction of exposure to anaphylactic causative agents, (5) food allergy management training. And (6) administration of epinephrine. Allows the Secretary to award matching grants to assist local educational agencies in implementing such food allergy and anaphylaxis management guidelines.
International Remittance Services Enhancement and Protection Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to repeal the limitation on the authority of Federal credit unions to sell negotiable checks , money orders, and other similar money transfer instruments and services to, as well as cash checks and money orders for, members only. Adds international money transfer services to the list of such services. Directs the appropriate Federal agencies to jointly prescribe regulations that require any financial institution or money transmitting business which initiates an international money transfer on behalf of a consumer to disclose the following: (1) any fees charged to the recipient, including exchange rate or currency conversion fees. (2) a final itemization of all costs to the consumer, including all fees charged for the remittance. And (3) the exact amount of foreign currency to be received by the recipient in the foreign country. Requires such disclosures to be in English and in any other language used by the financial institution or money transmitting business, or any of its agents, to advertise, solicit, or negotiate, either orally or in writing, at the office of the institution or business at which the international money transfer is initiated. Grants the Federal Trade Commission enforcement powers with respect to any financial institution or money transmitting business that is not an insured depository institution or insured credit union.
Mandates that any Federal agency or court : (1) establish an internal dispute resolution mechanism that provides, as a voluntary option, employee-disputant access to external third-party certified mediators. And (2) participate in mediation in specified circumstances. Prescribes mediation guidelines. States that attorneys and consultants are legally obligated to advise their clients of the mediation alternative and their obligations to participate in good faith.
Andrew Carnegie Public Libraries Act - Amends the Library Services and Technology Act to authorize the Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services to make grants for the construction or modernization of public libraries. Sets forth application requirements for persons or entities desiring to receive such grants. Allows the non-federal share of project costs to be provided from state, local, or private sources, including for-profit and nonprofit organizations. Provides for recovery of funds if a grant recipient or successor ceases or fails to be a public or nonprofit institution, or if the facility ceases to be used as a library.
Family Entertainment Protection Act - Prohibits a business from selling, renting, or permitting the sale or rental of any video game with a Mature, Adults-Only, or Ratings Pending rating from the Entertainment Software Ratings Board to any individual who has not attained the age of 17 years. Subjects violators of this Act to a civil penalty. Requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to contract with an expert, independent organization to determine annually whether Board ratings remain consistent and reliable. Authorizes the FTC to conduct: (1) and publicize the results of an annual secret audit of businesses to determine how frequently minors who attempt to purchase video games with a Mature, Adults-Only, or Rating Pending rating are able to do so successfully. And (2) an investigation into embedded content in video games that can be accessed through a keystroke combination, pass-code, or other technological means to estimate certain data about video games with embedded content. Expresses the sense of Congress that whenever the FTC determines that the content of a video game is inconsistent with the rating given to such game, it shall take appropriate action under its authority to regulate unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce. Requires the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection to ensure that consumers can file complaints alleging misleading or deceptive content-descriptions or labels on a video game using the same procedure by which complaints are now accepted concerning other forms of unfair, deceptive, or fraudulent advertising.
Authorizes the Secretary to make such a payment only to reduce or eliminate positions or functions identified in the plan. Requires such payments to be in a lump sum and no greater than $25,000 apiece. Requires full repayment from any individual who is subsequently reemployed with any Federal department or agency, with exceptions for certain employment in which the individual possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available. Requires the Department to remit to the Office of Personnel Management for credit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund 15 percent of the final basic pay of each individual receiving such payments. Reduces the total number of full-time equivalent employees in the Department by one for each individual receiving such a payment. Authorizes the President to waive such reductions upon a determination of the existence of: (1) a state of war or other national emergency. Or (2) an extraordinary emergency which threatens life, health, safety, property, or the environment. Provides for continued temporary health insurance coverage for individuals receiving such payments. Prohibits any payment based on the separation of an employee after September 30, 2004.
National Whale Conservation Fund Act of 1998 - Amends the National Fish and Wildlife Establishment Act to authorize the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to establish a national whale conservation endowment fund to be used to support research, management activities, or educational programs that contribute to the protection, conservation, or recovery of whale populations in US waters. Permits the Foundation to enter into appropriate arrangements to provide for the design, copyright, production, marketing, or licensing of logos, seals, decals, stamps, or any other item that the Foundation determines to be appropriate to raise funds to be deposited in the fund. Authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to transfer to the Foundation for deposit in the fund: (1) any amount received by the Secretary as a civil penalty assessed under the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972. Or (2) any amount received by the Secretary as a settlement or award for damages in a civil action or other legal proceeding relating to damage of natural resources. Declares it is the intent of the Congress that, in making expenditures from the fund, the Foundation should give priority to projects that address the conservation of populations of whales that the Foundation determines: (1) are the most endangered. Or (2) most warrant, and are most likely to benefit from, research management or educational activities. Requires the Directors to consult with the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the Marine Mammal Commission in carrying out any action under this Act.
Encouraging Work and Supporting Marriage Act of 2002 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to increase the standard deduction for the married filing jointly category beginning in calendar year 2003. Modifies the work opportunity credit by: (1) repealing the requirement that a qualified ex-felon be a member of a low-income family. (2) increasing the maximum age for eligibility of food stamp recipients to 30 years, (3) redefining the term vocational rehabilitation referral. (4) adding long-term family assistance recipients to the definition of targeted groups. And (5) increasing the maximum allowable credit for employment of long-term family assistance recipients. Repeals the separate welfare-to-work credit.
Home-Assembled Firearms Restriction Act of 2015 Considers as a banned hazardous product under the Consumer Product Safety Act: (1) any firearm receiver casting or firearm receiver blank that does not meet the definition of a firearm under the federal criminal code at the point of sale but that can be completed after purchase by the consumer to function as a firearm frame or receiver for a semiautomatic assault weapon or machine gun, or (2) an assault weapon parts kit or machine gun parts kit. Makes it unlawful to market or advertise any of such weapons for sale on any medium of electronic communications, including over the Internet. Requires marketing or advertising violations to be treated as unfair or deceptive acts or practices under the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Superfund Emergency Response Act of 2012 - Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to carry out any assessment, monitoring, remediation, repair, or construction activity determined to be necessary at a site that: (1) is proposed to be listed on, is listed on, or has been deleted from the National Priorities List (NPL) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). And (2) is located in an area that the President has declared a major disaster in accordance with the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Amends CERCLA to authorize a state governor or senator to request that the Administrator carry out an assessment and report on the impacts of a major disaster on any proposed or listed NPL site located in a major disaster area. Requires the assessment to include: (1) an evaluation of whether the disaster resulted in the release of any contaminants into the ambient environment that threaten public health and the environment. (2) an assessment of any actions necessary to mitigate a toxic release, repair any damage, or provide monitoring in response to disaster damage. (3) a list of actions already taken by Administrator to prevent, mitigate, or remediate any disaster damage at the site. And (4) any information needed to alert the public to any threat to public health and the environment relating to the release of contaminants at the site. Directs the Administrator to study and report on: (1) an assessment of the vulnerability of each property that, due to an extreme weather event, is proposed to be listed, is listed, or is removed from the NPL. (2) an evaluation of the quantity of properties proposed or listed on the NPL in areas that are prone to flooding as a result of such an event. And (3) recommendations relating to emergency response protocols in such an event to prevent any release of contaminants into the ambient environment, strategies to improve the resiliency of assessments, monitoring, or construction carried out on NPL proprieties as such events become more common, and additional policies necessary to enhance the resiliency of NPL properties as a result of such events. Defines an extreme weather event as severe and unseasonable weather, heavy precipitation, a hurricane, a storm surge, a tornado or other windstorm, extreme heat and cold, or any other event that qualifies as a major disaster.
Safer Neighborhoods Gun Buyback Act of 2015 This bill authorizes the Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to make grants to states, local governments, or gun dealers to conduct gun buyback programs. The BJA may distribute smart prepaid cards for use by a state, local government, or gun dealer to compensate individuals who dispose of firearms. Additionally, the bill amends the federal criminal code to make it a crime to use or accept a smart prepaid card in the acquisition or transfer of a firearm or ammunition. A violator is subject to a fine, up to two years in prison, or both.
Crime Victims' Bill of Rights Act - Amends Rule 32 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure to require the court, before imposing sentence, to address personally any victim of the offense for which sentence is to be imposed who is present at the sentencing hearing and to afford such individual the opportunity to make a statement and present information in relation to the sentence. Permits the court, upon request by a victim, to hear in camera such a statement by that victim. Amends the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 to condition Federal grant eligibility of crime victim compensation programs on a State providing an effective system of notice to eligible victims of the existence of compensation and other programs to assist victims of crime. Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to: (1) authorize drug control and system improvement grants to States to be used for programs that allow for the physical and visual separation of a victim of crime from an alleged perpetrator of such crime while waiting in a judicial facility for a courtroom appearance. And (2) provide for a reduction of formula grants by 25 percent for States which fail to notify a crime victim of specified rights. Directs the Attorney General to assure that Federal prosecutors and law enforcement officials: (1) provide an effective system of notice to crime victims of the existence of compensation and other programs to assist victims who might be eligible to participate. (2) notify crime victims of the availability of, and provide such victims the opportunity for, visual and physical separation from alleged crime perpetrators while waiting in a judicial facility for a courtroom appearance. And (3) provide a crime victim with the earliest possible notice of the scheduling of each court proceeding or parole hearing that the witness is required or entitled to attend.
Requires a creditor to report a consumer's mortgage payment history to a nationally recognized credit bureau at least quarterly. Prohibits creditor profit from the sale at foreclosure of property securing a high-cost mortgage. Requires a high-cost mortgage creditor to respond within three business days to a request for a written statement setting forth the amounts necessary to fully satisfy the debt obligation. Redraws creditor liability guidelines. Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act to revise guidelines for: (1) standard Federal forms for the statement of settlement costs. And (2) information booklets that advise the consumer of certain sources of mortgage broker compensation. Establishes Federal preemption of State law concerning subject matter under this Act. Empowers the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to interpret Federal preemption issues under this Act.
FCC Modernization Act of 1996 - Directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to prepare a plan to: (1) adjust the allocation of FCC personnel to reflect competitive policies adopted by the United States. (2) propose the automation or privatization of routine FCC functions, as well as the termination of unnecessary functions, (3) reduce FCC management and overhead expenses. And (4) prepare the FCC for rapid response to changes in technologies and markets. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to authorize the FCC to delegate to advisory coordinating committees its authority to grant licenses and permits for stations in the private mobile communications services. Authorizes the FCC to require the filing by any carrier of any contract, agreement, or arrangement. Repeals provisions of the Act: (1) prohibiting any person from holding the position of officer or director of more than one carrier subject to the Act, unless authorized by the FCC. And (2) authorizing the FCC to undertake valuations, and require inventories, of carrier property. Terminates the FCC's authority to prohibit the construction of a new line, or the extension of a line, of communications service by a carrier without such carrier first obtaining a certificate of permission from the FCC. Delays the effective date of such termination with respect to the construction, extension, or acquisition of any line for foreign communications. Provides that a common carrier's application for a waiver of specified regulations in connection with an acquisition of the lines of another carrier shall be deemed approved six months after submission unless the FCC finds that the application is not in the public interest. Repeals provisions of the Act: (1) requiring the FCC to examine common carrier transactions relating to the furnishing of equipment, supplies, and services in order to determine the effect of such transactions on fees charged by such carriers. And (2) authorizing the FCC to inquire into the management of the business of all carriers subject to the Act. Requires each telecommunications carrier to file annually with the FCC its financial report to shareholders, as well as related documents and information. Terminates the FCC's authority to provide preferential treatment in licensing procedures to persons who make significant contributions to the development of a new telecommunication service or the development of new technologies that substantially enhance an existing service. Repeals provisions of the Act relating to: (1) the use of naval radio stations for broadcasting commercial messages. And (2) FCC allocation of very high frequency stations and AM radio stations. Provides for deposit into the Treasury of fees charged by Federal departments and agencies for use of property, rights-of-way, and easements. Prohibits the FCC Chairman, for two years after the enactment of this Act, from travelling more than 50 miles from the District of Columbia while on official business.
Drone Federalism Act of 2017 This bill requires the Federal Aviation Administration, in prescribing regulations or standards related to unmanned aircraft systems, to: define, and limit the scope of, the preemptive effect of such regulations or standards, preserve the legitimate interests of state, local, and tribal governments. Preserve state, local, and tribal authority to issue certain reasonable restrictions on the operation of a civil unmanned aircraft system within 200 feet of the ground or a structure. Authorize, only with a property owner's permission, the operation of a civil unmanned aircraft in the immediate reaches of the airspace above private property. And establish pilot programs with state, local, and tribal governments to regulate the operation of civil unmanned aircraft systems, coordinate enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations, and identify best practices.
Hudson-Fulton-Champlain Commemoration Commission Act of 2002 - Establishes the Hudson-Fulton-Champlain Commemoration Commission to plan, develop, and execute programs and activities appropriate to commemorate in 2009 the anniversaries of the voyages of Henry Hudson , Robert Fulton , and Samuel de Champlain .
Prohibits an air carrier or foreign air carrier, in the case of a termination, cancellation, nonrenewal, or substantial change in the competitive circumstances of a ticket agent's appointment, from failing to provide the ticket agent with: (1) written notice, and a full statement of reasons for the action, on or before the 90th day preceding the action. And (2) at least 60 days to correct any deficiency claimed in such notice. Exempts a carrier from this requirement only in cases of insolvency, an assignment for the benefit of creditors, bankruptcy, or nonpayment of sums due under the appointment. Revises the preemption of State, local, and regional law or regulation related to a price, route, or level of service for air transportation provided by an air carrier. Limits the preemption to any such law or regulation that would directly prescribe a price, route, or level of service. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations to establish minimum Federal standards for resuscitation, emergency medical, and first-aid equipment and supplies to be carried on board an aircraft operated by an air carrier that is capable of carrying at least 30 passengers. Bars an air carrier or foreign air carrier from preventing or hindering a passenger from exiting an aircraft if: (1) the aircraft is parked at an airport terminal gate with access to ramp or other facilities through which passengers are customarily boarded and deplaned. (2) such aircraft has remained at the gate more than one hour past its scheduled departure time. And (3) the captain of the aircraft has not been informed by air traffic control authorities that such aircraft can be cleared for departure within 15 minutes. Establishes the National Commission to Ensure Consumer Information and Choice in the Airline Industry. Requires the Commission, among other things, to study and make policy recommendations to the President and Congress on consumer access to information about the products and services of the airline industry, especially airline fares and routes.
National Guard and Reservists Education Benefits Act - Requires the Secretary of Education to carry out a program of block grants to States to pay tuition and fees for undergraduate studies at public institutions for members of the Selected Reserve. Excludes from the block grant program those members of the Selected Reserve who participate in other specified educational assistance programs. Requires the chief executive officer of each State wishing to receive block grant funds to submit an annual certification that the State will: (1) use such funds to defray the cost of undergraduate tuition and fees for members of the Selected Reserve. (2) return any unused funds to the Secretary according to the reconciliation process set forth in this Act. And (3) comply with the reporting requirements of this Act. Sets forth an allotment scheme for block grant funds that requires allotments to reflect the ratio of Selected Reserve members in the receiving State to Selected Reserve members in all States. Establishes minimum allotments.
Homeless Children's Immunization Assistance Act - Amends the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act to require operators of specified emergency shelters and transitional housing to determine the immunization status of children under the age of six years old occupying such housing.
Water Desalination Act of 1996 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to award grants and contracts to conduct, encourage, and assist in the financing of research to develop processes for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial uses. Provides appropriate research and study topics. Requires the Secretary to recommend to the Congress desalination demonstration projects or full-scale desalination projects to carry out the purposes of this Act and to further evaluate and implement the results of the research and studies conducted. Directs the Secretary to administer and conduct a demonstration and development program for water desalination and related activities, including desalination plants and modules, byproducts marketing, economic cost surveys, and desalination cooperative agreements. Requires all information from studies sponsored or funded under this Act to be considered public information. Authorizes the Secretary to accept technical and administrative assistance in carrying out this Act. Provides Federal cost-sharing limitations for demonstration or development projects conducted under this Act. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1997 through 2002. Requires the Secretary to consult with the heads of Federal agencies which have experience in conducting desalination research or operating desalination facilities.
Repeal of Obamacare Act - Repeals the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, effective as of its enactment. Restores provisions of law amended by such Act. Repeals the health care provisions of the Health Care and Education and Reconciliation Act of 2010, effective as of the Act's enactment. Restores provisions of law amended by the Act's health care provisions.
Seniors Financial Fraud Prevention Act of 2010 - Establishes a separate office within the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for the prevention of fraud targeting seniors and requires the office to assist the FTC in monitoring the market for mail, telemarketing, television, and Internet fraud which targets seniors. Requires the FTC through such office: (1) to disseminate to seniors and their families and caregivers information on mail, telemarketing, television, and Internet fraud targeting seniors, including on ways of referring complaints to appropriate law enforcement agencies. (2) in response to a request about a particular entity or individual, to provide publicly available information on any record of civil or criminal law enforcement action for such fraud. And (3) to maintain a website as a resource for such individuals on those kinds of fraud. Requires the FTC through such office to establish procedures to: (1) log and acknowledge complaints from individuals who certify that they believe they have been victims of mail, telemarketing, television, or Internet fraud, (2) provide certain information on those kinds of fraud. And (3) refer such complaints to appropriate entities, including state consumer protection agencies and entities and appropriate law enforcement agencies, for potential law enforcement action.
Head Start Improvement Act of 2015 This bill amends the Head Start Act to replace the existing Head Start program with block grants to states and Indian tribes for prekindergarten (pre-K) education. Instead of providing direct financial assistance to Head Start agencies, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) shall allot block grant funds for pre-K education among eligible states and Indian tribes in accordance withnbsp. Their relative proportions of children, age five and younger, from low-income households. nbsp, Grant recipientsnbsp, shall use the grant funds to: (1)nbsp, award subgrants to eligible entitiesnbsp, that providenbsp, pre-K education programs, (2) administer such programs. And (3) provide technical assistance, oversight, monitoring, research, and training. Under current law, HHS is authorized to designate, monitor, and establish standards fornbsp, Head Start agencies. The bill instead shiftsnbsp, pre-K program oversight and controlnbsp, to states and Indian tribes, whichnbsp. Shall have full flexibility to use grant funds to finance the pre-K programs ofnbsp, their choice. nbsp, In addition,nbsp. Grant recipients may use grant funds to establish portable voucher systems that allow costs to be paidnbsp, for attendance atnbsp. Private pre-K education programs. Under current law, federal financial assistance for a Head Start programnbsp, is generally limited tonbsp, 80 of total program costs. The bill maintains thisnbsp, limitation bynbsp. Requiring grant recipients to provide matching funds equal to 20 of the grant amount.
Enhancing Military and Police Operations through Women's Engagement and Recruitment Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of State, in coordination with the Department of Defense (DOD), to seek to increase the participation of women receiving training under the International Military Education and Training program at US military schools and training institutions, with the goal of doubling female participation globally by September 30, 2019. The State Department shall seek to increase the participation of women receiving training under its Anti-Terrorism Assistance (ATA) programs, with the goal of doubling the total women receiving such training by September 30, 2019, and make explicit in its mandate for ATA programs its priority to increase women's participation. State shall work with partner countries receiving peacekeeping training assistance to: (1) prioritize the integration, training, and deployment of qualified female peacekeepers in peace operations. (2) prioritize the employment, development, and integration of female peacekeeping trainers. And (3) double the number of qualified women deployed to peace operations within five years. State also shall: promote an increase in the recruitment, retention, and leadership roles of female personnel assigned to United Nations peacekeeping missions. Establish female participation requirements for its police training programs and work with partner countries to ensure that women account for at least 10 of nominees for US-funded police training programs. Make explicit its priority to increase women's participation in the design and implementation of all police training programs. Develop a plan for the monitoring and independent evaluation of programs, projects, and activities carried out under this bill. And designate officials to brief Congress regarding actions taken under this Act.
st Century Federal Pell Grant Plus Act - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish a Federal Pell Grant Plus program that increases, to double the amount calculated for the student, the Federal Pell Grant for those students who pursue programs of study in engineering, mathematics, science, or foreign languages.
Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the taxation of the foreign-source income of domestic corporations, to: (1) eliminate the deferral of tax on the foreign-source income of US corporations for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013, (2) deny the foreign tax credit to large integrated oil companies that are dual capacity taxpayers, (3) limit the offset of the foreign tax credit to income that is subject to US tax, and (4) treat foreign corporations managed and controlled in the United States as domestic corporations for US tax purposes.
Comprehensive Opioid Recovery Centers Act of 2018 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to establish or operate comprehensive opioid recovery centers. Priority for grants must be given to entities located in states or Indian country with a high per capita drug overdose mortality rate. Each center must carry out specified outreach activities and specified treatment and recovery services.
Commit to Opioid Medical Prescriber Accountability and Safety for Seniors Act or the COMPASS Act This bill requires the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS) to identify outlier prescribers of opioids under the Medicare prescription drug benefit and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans. Specifically, the CMS must: (1) establish an opioid-prescription threshold for determining whether a prescriber is an outlier compared to other prescribers, based on specialty and geographic area, (2) use National Provider Identifiers to identify outlier prescribers. And (3) annually notify identified outlier prescribers of their status and provide them with resources on proper prescribing methods. The CMS may also identify and notify outlier prescribers based on co-prescriptions of covered drugs that have adverse effects when used in combination with opioids.
International Peacekeeping Reform Act of 1997 - Prohibits funds made available to the Department of State under the Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities Account, or under any law to pay for contributions for United Nations peacekeeping activities, from being available to the United Nations for the establishment, expansion, or modification in mission of a United Nations peacekeeping operation unless the President: (1) makes the certification required by this Act. And (2) notifies the Congress, at least 15 days before any vote by the United Nations Security Council to establish, expand, or modify such operation, of the intent to support the operation. Directs the President to certify that the peacekeeping operation meets the following requirements: (1) the operation involves an international conflict in which hostilities have ceased and all significant parties to the conflict agree to the imposition of United Nations forces to seek an enduring solution to the conflict. (2) the percentage of the US-assessed share of the operation's cost is no greater than the percentage of the share for the regular United Nations budget. (3) adequate measures have been taken by the United Nations to protect sensitive US-supplied intelligence information. And (4) with respect to units of the US armed forces trained to carry out direct combat missions, the operation advances US national security interests, the units are critical to the success of the operation and will be under US command and control, and any armed forces member would be protected by the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War.
Federal Workforce Reduction and Reform Act of 2011 - Amends the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011, to extend the freeze on statutory pay adjustments for federal civilian employees and increases in the rates of basic pay for senior executives or senior-level employees through December 31, 2014. Prohibits agencies from paying bonuses or cash awards to employees during FY2012-FY2014. Requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to: (1) take appropriate measures to ensure that the total number of federal employees or contract employees, beginning in FY2022, does not exceed 85 of the total number of federal employees on September 30, 2011. (2) continuously monitor all agencies, make a determination on whether the total number of federal employees in any quarter of a fiscal year exceeds the maximum number allowed by this Act, and notify the President and Congress if the number exceeds the maximum. And (3) ensure that there is no increase in the procurement of service contracts due to this Act unless a cost comparison demonstrates that such contracts would be financially advantageous to the federal government. Prohibits a federal agency from filling any vacancy until OMB provides written notice to the President and Congress that the number of federal or contract employees does not exceed the limitation imposed by this Act. Allows the President to waive the workforce limitations imposed by this Act if the President determines that the existence of a state or war or other national security concern or the existence of an extraordinary emergency threatening life, health, public safety, property, or the environment so requires. Imposes limitations on the amount allowed for the reimbursement of travel costs incurred by federal employees in FY2012-FY2014 unless such expenses are incurred by threatened law enforcement personnel or for reasons relating to national security or public safety.
Paleontological Resources Preservation Act - Directs the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to: (1) manage and protect paleontological resources on Federal land using scientific principles and expertise. And (2) develop plans for inventorying, monitoring, and deriving the scientific and educational use of such resources. Directs the Secretaries to establish a program to increase public awareness about the significance of paleontological resources. Prohibits a person from collecting a paleontological resource from Federal land without a permit issued under this Act by one of the Secretaries. Authorizes the Secretaries to allow casual collecting of common invertebrate and plant paleontological resources for scientific, educational, and recreational uses, without a permit, on certain Federal lands where not inconsistent with laws governing management of such lands and this Act. Recognizes as valid permits issued before enactment of this Act. Sets forth criteria by which the Secretaries may issue permits for paleontological resources. Requires that any paleontological resource and associated records collected under a permit be deposited in an approved repository. Allows the Secretaries to modify, suspend, or revoke a permit under specified circumstances, including if there is a violation of a term or a condition of a permit. Declares that a permit shall be revoked if any person working under the authority of the permit is convicted of a criminal offense under this Act or assessed a civil penalty under this Act. States that the Secretaries may enter into agreements with non-Federal repositories regarding the curation of paleontological resources, data, and records. Prohibits: (1) excavating, removing, or altering a paleontological resource located on Federal lands, except in compliance with this Act. (2) exchanging or receiving such a resource, if the person knew or should have known such resource to have been illegally removed from Federal lands. (3) selling or purchasing a paleontological resource, if the person knew or should have known such resource to have been illegally removed from Federal lands. Or (4) making or submitting false records, accounts, or identification of any paleontological resource excavated or removed from Federal lands. Imposes criminal penalties for violating this Act. Sets forth requirements for the assessment of civil penalties by the Secretaries for violations of any prohibitions contained in regulations or permits issued under this Act. Requires any recovered amounts to be available for use: (1) to protect or restore the paleontological resources and sites which were the subject of the action, or to acquire sites with equivalent resources and to protect, monitor, and study the resources and sites. (2) to provide educational materials to the public about paleontological resources and sites. And (3) as a reward. Allows the Secretaries to pay from penalties collected under this Act a reward to any person who furnishes information leading to the finding of a civil violation, or the conviction of criminal violation, with respect to which the penalty was paid. Provides for the civil or, as appropriate, the criminal forfeiture of all paleontological resources with respect to which a civil or criminal violation occurred, and of all vehicles and equipment that were used in connection with the violation. Allows the Secretary to transfer administration of seized paleontological resources to educational institutions for scientific or educational purposes. Requires that information on the nature and specific location of a paleontological resource that requires a permit under this Act or other Federal law be withheld from the public, including under the Freedom of Information Act, except under specified conditions. Directs the Secretaries to issue such regulations as are appropriate to carry out this Act, while providing opportunities for public notice and comment. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to do certain things, including to: (1) modify any activity under the general mining laws, the mineral or geothermal leasing laws, laws providing for minerals materials disposal, or laws providing for the management or regulation of the activities authorized by the aforementioned laws. (2) modify any activity under existing laws and authorities relating to reclamation and multiple uses of Federal lands. Or (3) alter or diminish the authority of a Federal agency under any other law to provide protection for paleontological resources on Federal lands in addition to the protection provided under this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Curecanti National Recreation Area Boundary Establishment Act of 2010 - Establishes a boundary for the Curecanti National Recreation Area in Colorado and designates it as a unit of the National Park System. Establishes a conservation opportunity area within the Recreation Area. Withdraws all federal lands within the Recreation Area from specified public land, mining, and mineral and geothermal leasing laws. Requires the National Park Service (NPS) to develop a general management plan for the Recreation Area.
Unshackling Students to Lead, Excel, Act, Develop, and Serve Act of 2012 or US LEADS Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow recent college graduates to defer payment on their student loans under the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) and Direct Loan (DL) programs without accruing interest when the national unemployment rate exceeds 7 or the unemployment rate for 21-25 year olds exceeds 9. Limits that deferral period to a maximum of five years. Makes the deferral available only to graduates aged 21-25 who received their first baccalaureate degree within the four years preceding this Act's enactment.
Quadrennial Energy Review Act of 2011 - Amends the Department of Energy Organization Act to direct the President to establish an interagency working group to coordinate the Quadrennial Energy Review to provide an integrated view of national energy objectives and federal energy policy, including alignment of research programs, incentives, regulations, and partnerships. Requires the Secretary of Energy, in cooperation with the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, to report to Congress on the Quadrennial Energy Review, including an integrated view of short-, intermediate-, and long-term objectives for federal energy policy in the context of economic, environmental, and security priorities. Requires the Secretary to provide the Executive Secretariat with the necessary analytical, financial, and administrative support for the conduct of each Quadrennial Energy Review.
School Security Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) to require educational entities to include, in the educational records of students who are children with disabilities and students who are children without disabilities, documentation with regard to disciplinary measures taken against them. Permits the use of long-term disciplinary measures against students who are children with disabilities. Requires continuing provision of educational services to children with disabilities who engage in behavior that violates an educational entity's rules or code of conduct, unless such behavior is not a manifestation of their disabilities, and it is the entity's policy to cease educational services to any child engaged in such behavior. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Congress should follow through on its original commitment and provide funding for the IDEA State grant program at the level of 40 percent of the national average per-pupil expenditure.
Clinical Trials Modernization Act of 2015 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to allow sponsors of applications for new drugs, biological products, and medical devices to propose incorporation of alternative statistical methods, including adaptive trial design and Bayesian methods, into clinical trial protocols and marketing applications. The FDA is required to issue guidance that establishes or clarifies standards for using alternative statistical methods in clinical trials. The FDA must establish a process under which a post-approval study or clinical trial required by the FDA is periodically evaluated to determine whether the trial or study is no longer scientifically warranted or whether the design should be renegotiated because of changes in medical practice or the standard of care.
Metropolitan Washington Airports Act Amendments of 1995 - Amends the Metropolitan Washington Airports Act of 1986 to revise congressional findings with respect to the two federally owned airports in the Washington metropolitan area to declare a perceived declining limited need for a Federal role in the management of these airports and increasing need for local planning and management on a metropolitan statistical area basis. Revises the composition of the Board of Directors for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority. Repeals the mandate for and authority of a Board of Review of the Airports Authority, thus abolishing it. Prohibits any proposed action of the Board of Directors which could result in a change in the impact of aircraft noise in the vicinity of a Metropolitan Washington Airport unless, at least 60 days before the action is to take effect, it: (1) notifies the Committee on Noise Abatement at National and Dulles Airports of the Washington Council of Governments of the action to allow them an opportunity to review, and submit comments on, such action. And (2) submits to such committee a response to any committee comment with respect to such action. Requires persons appointed as members of the Board upon the enactment of this Act to continue to serve until their original terms expire. Provides for the appointment of persons to fill vacancies on the Board.
National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Reauthorization Act of 2010 - Amends the National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Act of 2005 to include as a purpose of such Act to foster the establishment of state-administered controlled substance monitoring systems in order to ensure that appropriate law enforcement, regulatory, and state professional licensing authorities have access to prescription history information for the purposes of investigating drug diversion and prescribing and dispensing practices of errant prescribers or pharmacists. Amends the Public Health Service Act to revise and update the controlled substance monitoring program, including to: (1) allow grants to be used to maintain and operate existing state controlled substance monitoring programs. (2) require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to redistribute any funds that are returned among the remaining grantees. (3) require a state to provide the Secretary with aggregate data and other information to enable the Secretary to evaluate the success of the state's program and to submit a progress report to Congress. And (4) expand the program to include any commonwealth or territory of the United States. Authorizes the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) or a state medicaid program or state health department receiving nonidentifiable information from a controlled substance monitoring database to make such information available to other entities for research purposes. Requires a state receiving a grant to: (1) facilitate prescriber use of the state's controlled substance monitoring system. And (2) educate prescribers on the benefits of the system both to them and society. Revises preferences for grants related to drug abuse to authorize the Secretary to give preference to eligible states or tribes that put forth a good faith effort to meet minimum requirements under the controlled substance monitoring program. Authorizes appropriations for FY2011-FY2013.
Great Lakes Federal Effectiveness Act - Establishes a Great Lakes Research Council to: (1) advise and promote the coordination of Federal research activities to avoid unnecessary duplication and ensure greater effectiveness in achieving ecosystem protection of the Great Lakes through the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. (2) prepare and provide to interested parties a document which includes an assessment of research activities needed to fulfill the goals of the Agreement and of existing Federal expertise in such activities and recommendations for research priorities. (3) identify topics for and participate in workshops and conferences on Great Lakes research issues. (4) make recommendations for the uniform collection of data for enhancing research and management protocols relating to the Great Lakes ecosystem. (5) advise and cooperate in the establishment of a multi-media data base for such ecosystem. And (6) ensure that findings and information regarding such research are disseminated in a timely manner.
Extends until January 31, 2014: (1) specified agricultural programs under the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, (2) suspension of permanent price support authorities, and (3) supplemental agricultural disaster assistance. Exempts from such extensions: (1) mandatory funding for nutrition education. (2) the conservation stewardship program, the farmland protection program, the environmental quality incentives program, and the wildlife habitat incentives program. (3) Commodity Credit Corporation funding for local and regional food aid procurement projects, the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, and a survey of foods purchased by school food authorities. (4) rural development programs for micro entrepreneur assistance, pending rural development loans and grants, value-added agricultural market development grants, and the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center, (5) market loss assistance for asparagus producers, (6) supplemental agricultural disaster assistance, (7) Pigford claims determinations. And (8) specified requirements of the Heartland, Habitat, Harvest, and Horticulture Act of 2008 relating to supplemental agricultural disaster assistance, revenue and tax, and trade. Backdates the effective date of this Act to September 30, 2013.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to provide for the allocation of any limitation imposed on school construction bonds with respect to which the holders are allowed a credit under the Internal Revenue Code. Applies the wage requirements of the Davis-Bacon Act to projects financed with such bonds.
Fair Elections Act of 1993 - Sets forth ballot access rights for Federal elections.
Recycled Roads Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to establish a recycled roads incentive grant program to encourage, and to make grants to States and Indian tribes to employ a coordinator and carry out projects and activities to promote, the expanded use of a diverse range of recyclable material in the construction and maintenance of Federal-aid highways. Directs the Secretary to: (1) encourage cooperation between transportation and environmental programs carried out by the State or Indian tribe. And (2) treat an Indian tribe as a State for the purpose of such grants.
Manufacturing Advisory Council Establishment Act of 2004 - Establishes the President's Council of Advisors on Manufacturing to: (1) advise the President on policy matters affecting the domestic manufacturing sector. (2) develop policies that will reduce manufacturing production costs, promote the international competitiveness of US-manufactured products, encourage innovation, investment and productivity in the manufacturing sector, and ensure an adequate supply of skilled manufacturing workers. And (3) assist the Secretary of Commerce in securing private sector involvement for Department of Commerce activities. States that provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act relating to the termination of advisory committees shall not apply to the Council.
Shareholder Protection Act of 2010 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require that any solicitation of a proxy, consent, or authorization with respect to any security of an issuer: (1) describe the specific nature and total amount of expenditures proposed for political activities for the forthcoming fiscal year. And (2) provide for a separate shareholder vote to authorize such proposed expenditures. Prohibits an issuer from making an expenditure for political activities in any fiscal year unless: (1) such expenditure meets the requirements of this Act. And (2) authorization for such expenditure has been granted by votes representing a majority of outstanding shares. Deems a violation of such prohibition a breach of the fiduciary duty of the officers and directors who authorized the expenditure. Subjects officers and directors who authorize the expenditure without prior shareholder authorization to joint and several liability to any individual shareholder or class of individuals who held shares at the time of such expenditure for three times the expenditure's amount. Requires institutional investment managers to disclose annually in mandatory reports how they voted on corporate political expenditures. Requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to promulgate regulations requiring: (1) investment managers to report how they voted within 30 days after the vote. And (2) the report to be made available to the public through the EDGAR system. Prohibits any person from bringing any civil, criminal, or administrative action against an institutional investment manager, or any of its employees, officers, or directors, based solely upon the investment manager's decision to either divest from, or not to invest in, the securities of an issuer based upon political expenditures made by that issuer. Applies this prohibition only to an institutional investment manager, or its employees, officers, or directors, that makes such disclosures in accordance with SEC regulations. Requires the SEC to direct the national securities exchanges and national securities associations to prohibit the listing of any class of equity security of an issuer whose corporate bylaws do not expressly provide for a vote by its board of directors on any individual expenditure: (1) for political activities in excess of $50,000. Or (2) that makes the total expenditures by the issuer for a particular election $50,000 or more. Requires an issuer to make the individual votes of the directors regarding any such expenditure publicly available within 48 hours. Directs the SEC to: (1) require issuers to disclose expenditures for political activities made during the preceding quarter, along with specified details, and the individual votes by board members authorizing such expenditures. (2) make such reports publicly available on its SEC website and through the EDGAR system. And (3) require each issuer to include in its annual report to shareholders a summary of all expenditures for political activities made during the preceding year in excess of $10,000. Directs the SEC to require each issuer to: (1) obtain and disclose in its mandatory reports any materials created with or purchased by any expenditure for political activities. And (2) disclose such materials in a clear and conspicuous location on its Internet website within 48 hours of obtaining the materials. Directs the SEC to assess and report to Congress annually on the compliance of public corporations and their management with the requirements of this Act. Requires the Comptroller General to evaluate and report periodically to Congress on the effectiveness of the SEC's oversight of its reporting and disclosure requirements.
Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act of 2014 - Exempts expatriate health plans, employers acting as sponsors of such plans, and health insurance issuers providing coverage under such plans from the health care coverage requirements of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Deems expatriate health coverage to be minimum essential coverage for purposes of meeting the individual responsibility requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. Declares that a qualified expatriate enrolled in an expatriate health plan shall not be considered a US health risk for purposes of assessing the annual fee on health insurance providers that provide health coverage to any US health risk for any year after 2014. Establishes a special rule for calculating the amount of this fee for calendar 2014. Defines a qualified expatriate as: (1) a participant in a group health plan who is an alien residing outside the United States, a US national, a lawful permanent resident, or a nonimmigrant about whom there is a good faith expectation of being abroad, in connection with his or her employment, for at least 180 days in a 12-month period. Or (2) an individual who is abroad as a member of a group determined appropriate by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Grants a Federal Charter to the 29th Division Associated, Inc.
Requires an LEA, to be eligible to receive a grant, to submit an application including: (1) information demonstrating that the LEA will provide not less than 35 percent of the annual cost of the activities assisted under the project from sources other than funds provided under the Act, which may be provided in cash or in kind, and provide not more than 25 percent of the annual cost of the activities assisted under the project from funds provided by the Secretary under other Federal programs that permit their use. And (2) an assurance that the LEA, in each year of the project, will maintain the agency's fiscal effort, from non-Federal sources, from the preceding fiscal year. Allows the use of grant funds to establish or expand community learning centers. Allows such centers to provide one or more of specified activities, including after school programs that: (1) include mentoring programs, academic assistance, recreational activities, or technology training. And (2) may include drug, alcohol, and gang prevention activities, health and nutrition counseling, and job skills preparation activities. Limits the amount of appropriated funds that may be used for after school programs. Directs an LEA to: (1) request volunteers from business and academic communities, and law enforcement organizations, to serve as mentors or to assist in other ways. (2) ensure that youth in the local community participate in designing the after school activities. (3) develop creative methods of conducting outreach to youth in the community. (4) request donations of computer equipment and other materials and equipment. And (5) work with State and local park and recreation agencies so that activities carried out by the agencies prior to this Act's enactment are not duplicated. Authorizes appropriations.
Iran Congressional Oversight Act of 2015 This bill directs the President, during the period which the Joint Plan of Action or a successor arrangement with Iran is in effect, to report Congress at least once every 90 days regarding Iran's compliance with the Joint Plan of Action or a successor arrangement. (The Joint Plan of Action: (1) means the November 2013 Joint Plan of Action signed by Iran and the P5-plus-1 countries, and Each report shall include a presidential determination and certification, made in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, on whether Iran has complied with or violated the terms of the Joint Plan of Action or a successor arrangement. Congress may initiate expedited consideration of legislation to reinstate waived or suspended sanctions if a report is accompanied by a presidential certification that Iran has violated the Joint Plan of Action or any successor arrangement. It is in order during the 30-day period beginning on the date on which a report is received by Congress for the Senate to move to proceed to the consideration of legislation to further respond to an Iranian violation of the Joint Plan of Action or any successor arrangement. The following shall apply: all points of order against the legislation are waived, the motion to proceed is not debatable, the motion is not subject to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. And if a motion to proceed to the consideration of the legislation is agreed to, the legislation shall remain the unfinished business until disposed of. If the United States is a party to a comprehensive long-term arrangement with Iran relating to its nuclear program under which the United States commits to lifting sanctions imposed pursuant to a provision of law included in a duly enacted Act of Congress, that provision shall remain in effect until repealed by an Act of Congress or terminated pursuant to another provision of law.
Medicare Part D Improvement Act of 2007 - Amends part D of the Social Security Act to revise requirements for the Medicare prescription drug program with respect to: (1) counting certain expenditures towards out-of-pocket limits. (2) conforming the late enrollment penalty to the Medicare part B penalty structure, (3) allowing more frequent changes in plans. And (4) removing the asset test and eliminating late enrollment penalties for low-income subsidy eligible individuals. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to study and report to Congress on how to: (1) eliminate the gap in Medicare part D prescription drug coverage created through the application of an initial coverage limit, and (2) finance such elimination.
Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act This bill amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) to require the Department of Health and Human Services, for certain states awarded a grant to establish a health insurance exchange, to report on how awarded amounts were used and rescind unobligated amounts. This applies to any state that terminates operation of its exchange or transfers operation to another entity. Such a state must provide to the General Services Administration any property acquired through the grant and refer matters involving fraud, waste, and abuse of funds issued pursuant to PPACA to the Department of Justice. Funds rescinded must be retained for federal budget deficit reduction.
Mutual Fund Transparency Act of 2005 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require broker disclosure in writing to open-end company purchasers of the amount of any compensation due the broker in connection with the purchase transaction from any sources. Amends the Investment Company Act of 1940 to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to require that brokerage commissions as an aggregate dollar amount and percentage of assets paid by a mutual fund company be included in any disclosure of the fees and expenses that may be payable by the holder of the securities of such company. Revamps independent mutual fund board of directors membership to reduce from 60 percent to 25 percent the permissible number of interested persons serving on the board. Prohibits an interested person from being board chairman. Specifies conditions an interested person must meet to service as a board member. Directs the SEC to issue final rules defining an interested person who is a significant service provider, including the investment adviser and principal underwriter of a registered investment company. Requires the SEC to study and report to Congress on: (1) financial literacy among mutual fund investors. And (2) mutual fund advertising. Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require broker disclosure to each purchaser of investment company shares in a mutual fund transaction of the compensation the broker receives, in dollars and as as a percentage of assets. Requires each national securities association to issue rules requiring a broker that provides individualized investment advice to a person to: (1) have a fiduciary duty to that person, (2) act solely in the best interests of that person. And (3) fully disclose all potential conflicts of interest and other material information before the investment advice is first provided, and at least annually thereafter.
Hermosa Creek Watershed Protection Act of 2012 - Designates specified federal lands in San Juan National Forest as: (1) the Hermosa Creek Watershed and Protection Area, and (2) the Hermosa Creek Special Management Area. Designates specified land within the Protection Area as the Hermosa Creek Wilderness.
School-Based Asthma Management Program Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to add requirements that states must meet to receive a preference for asthma grants. To receive the preference, states must additionally: (1) provide civil liability protection to trained school personnel who administer asthma-related rescue medication to a student with asthma. And (2) require schools to permit trained school personnel to administer asthma-related rescue medication to students with asthma, maintain a supply of asthma-related rescue medication, and have a comprehensive asthma management program.
Birthparent Assistance Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide certain post-legal adoption services, counseling, and a nationally-available hotline for birthparents who have placed a child for adoption.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on: (1) each act of self-dealing between a disqualified person and a tax-exempt organization. And (2) any direct or indirect inurement of net earnings of a tax-exempt organization to the benefit of any disqualified person. Describes a disqualified person as: (1) any organization manager, (2) any family member of an organization manager, or (3) any 35-percent controlled entity of such persons.
Pima County Land Adjustment Act - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to convey to Las Cienegas Conservation, LLC, the Sahuarita property, which consists of approximately 1,280 acres, in exchange for both the Ironwood-Moore property, which consists of approximately 600 acres, and the Empirita-Simonson property, which consists of approximately 2,490 acres. Requires the Secretary to modify the boundaries of the Las Cienegas National Conservation to include the Empirita-Simonson property. Requires the Secretary to convey the Tumamoc Hill property, which consists of approximately 290 acres, to Pima County, Arizona upon the County paying the value of such property to the State of Arizona and the State Land Department.
Urban Sprawl and Smart Growth Study Act - Requires the Council on Environmental Quality to study and report to specified congressional committees on urban sprawl and smart growth, examining environmental impact statements (EIS) and assessments by a minimum of 15 Federal agencies that were completed after 1995. Provides for consideration of urban sprawl in environmental assessments and EIS prepared by Federal agencies for proposed Federal actions.
National Quality Commitment Award Act of 1993 - Amends the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 to establish the National Commitment to Quality Award Program involving the awarding of a medal and at least three monetary competitive awards to institutions of higher education. Authorizes specialized monetary awards to any institution of higher education that excels in teaching or practicing either total quality management (TQM) or process manufacturing engineering services productivity improvement.
Immigration Backlog Reduction Act of 2011 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to set forth provisions regarding the expedited removal of: (1) inadmissible arriving aliens, and (2) criminal aliens.
Federal Power Asset Privatization Act of 1995 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to sell, at the highest possible price, all Federal electric power generation and transmission facilities supervised by, or coordinated with, the Federal Power Marketing Administrations. Restricts such sales to domestic entities or US citizens. Requires the Secretary to terminate Federal Power Marketing Administration operations upon completion of the sales. Directs the Secretary to retain a private sector firm through a competitive bidding process to serve as financial advisor with respect to such sales. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the purchaser of any such facilities should offer to employ former Federal Power Marketing Administration personnel. Mandates that sale proceeds be deposited into the Treasury. Sets forth a sales completion deadline for each Power Marketing Administration. Mandates that the pertinent sales agreements require each purchaser providing electric power to customers within any region to insure that the price of electric power does not increase above the baseline price at a rate greater than ten percent annually. Directs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to issue to the purchaser of a hydroelectric generation facility a ten-year original license under the Federal Power Act to insure that the project will continue operations under the same conditions as were applicable prior to the sale. Grants FERC Federal Power Act jurisdiction over any such facility sold. Amends the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 1993 to repeal the proscription against the use of appropriated funds for studies regarding a changeover from an at cost to a market rate or other noncost-based methodology for pricing hydroelectric power.
Construction Consensus Procurement Improvement Act of 2016 This bill modifies the design-build selection procedures used by federal agencies soliciting offers to enter into civilian contracts for the design and construction of a public building, facility, or work. Two-phase selection procedures must be used when a contracting officer determines that a project has a value of $3 million or greater. But for contracts valued at less than $3 million, the contracting officer makes the same determination under current law as to whether the use of two-phase selection procedures is appropriate when the officer anticipates at least three offers for the contract. Federal agencies must report, each year through FY2021,nbsp. On each instance where the agency awarded a design-build contract in which: (1) more than five finalists were selected for phase-two requests for proposals, or (2) the contract or order was awarded without using two-phase selection procedures. The Government Accountability Office must report on agency compliance with design-build contract procedures. The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council must amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to prohibit the use of reverse auctions as part of the two-phase selection procedure for awarding contracts for construction and design services. A reverse auction, with respect to procurement by an agency, is: (1) a real-time auction conducted through an electronic medium among at least two offerors who compete by submitting bids for a supply or service contract with the ability to submit revised lower bids before the closing of the auction. And (2) the award of the contract, delivery order, task order, or purchase order to thenbsp, offeror based on the price obtained through the auction process.
College and University Rural Education (CURE) Act of 2007 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants to partnerships between rural institutions of higher education (IHEs) and rural local educational agencies, rural education service agencies, regional employers, or rural education nonprofit organizations for activities to: (1) improve the rural IHE enrollment rates of rural high school graduates and former attendees. And (2) encourage nontraditional students' participation in rural IHE degree programs. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to partnerships between rural IHEs and regional employers to: (1) provide additional training to rural IHE attendees in careers relevant to the regional economy. And (2) encourage regional businesses to employ rural IHE graduates. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to rural IHEs to create or strengthen academic programs that prepare graduates to enter high-need occupations in the regional and local economies. Requires the General Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate, and make recommendations to Congress regarding the improvement of, rural access to four-year IHEs and degree programs.
Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 2003 - Amends the Temporary Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2002 (TEUCA) to entitle eligible individuals in all States to a total of 26 weeks of TEUC compensation . Makes such additional benefits also available to individuals who exhausted their TEUC benefits before January 1, 2003. Provides for a transition period of continuing payments to individuals with amounts remaining in their TEUC account, for weeks beginning before December 31, 2003. Directs the Secretary of Labor to deem second tier benefit amounts deposited in an individual's account as deposited in such account, by reason of the amendments made by this Act, as single tier benefit amounts . Sets forth requirements relating to applicability of this Act to those who have exhausted their benefits under TEUCA, as well as to current beneficiaries.
Reciprocity and Fairness in Foreign Investment Act - Permits a foreign person owned or controlled by a foreign government to acquire ownership in either a business, or in real property in the United States, but only to the same extent as that foreign government allows US persons to acquire ownership in comparable enterprises organized under the laws of that foreign country. Subjects investment and operation of critical infrastructure in the United States by such a foreign person to the same reciprocity requirements. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to issue implementing regulations. Establishes civil penalties for violations of this Act.
Requires Lake Gulch, Inc. to convey, on an equal value basis, specified lands located in Larimer, Lake, and Conejos Counties, Colorado, to the Secretary of the Interior in exchange for certain Lake Gulch Selected Lands located in Gilpin County, Colorado. Provides that, if cash equalization monies are owed to the United States in the exchange, such monies shall be retained by the Secretary and may be utilized until fully expended to purchase from willing sellers land or water rights to augment wildlife habitat and to protect and restore wetlands in the Bureau of Land Management's Blanca Wetlands, Alamosa County, Colorado. Conditions the conveyance of such selected lands on Lake Gulch executing an agreement which: (1) grants the United States a covenant that none of such lands shall ever be used for gaming purposes should such gaming area ever be expanded by the State. And (2) permanently holds the United States harmless for liability and indemnifies it against all costs arising from any activities, operations or other acts conducted by Lake Gulch on the selected lands after such transfer. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed as either diminishing or increasing any US responsibility or liability based on the condition of the selected lands before or on the date of their transfer. Subjects the conveyance to the existing easement for Gilpin County Road 6. Revokes a specified Public Water Reserve established by Executive Order dated April 17, 1926, insofar as it affects certain land which covers a portion of the selected lands.
Manufacturing Modernization and Diversification Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to certify special purpose vehicles (SPVs) created by a state to take part in a program to carry out collateral support and loan participation programs for the benefit of qualified manufacturers . Outlines SPV application requirements. Allows, under the collateral support program, a qualified manufacturer that wishes to receive a bank loan but has insufficient collateral to ask the bank to seek collateral loan support from the SPV. Prohibits an SPV from providing more than $20 million in collateral support to any one manufacturer. Requires manufacturers to be charged a fee for such support. Allows, under the loan participation program, a qualified manufacturer that wishes to receive a bank loan but would not otherwise qualify for the loan to ask the bank to seek participation for such loan from the SPV. Prohibits an SPV from providing more than $20 million in participation support to any one manufacturer. Requires manufacturers to be charged a fee for such support. Requires: (1) periodic reports from such banks to participating SPVs. And (2) quarterly reports from the Secretary to Congress on participants in and impacts of the support and participation programs.
Lamprey Wild and Scenic River Act - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate a specified segment of the Lamprey River in New Hampshire as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Requires the segment to be: (1) administered as a recreational river by the Secretary of the Interior through cooperative agreements between the Secretary and the State of New Hampshire and the towns of Durham, Lee, and Newmarket, New Hampshire. And (2) managed in accordance with the Lamprey River Management Plan. Deems the Plan to satisfy the requirement for a comprehensive management plan pursuant to the Act. Requires the Secretary to coordinate the Secretary's management responsibilities under this Act with the Lamprey River Advisory Committee. Deems the zoning ordinances adopted by such towns, including provisions for conservation of shorelands, floodplains, and wetlands associated with the segment, to satisfy the standards and requirements of the Act. Applies to the segment provisions of the Act which prohibit Federal acquisition of lands by condemnation. Provides that the acquisition of lands for purposes of this Act shall be limited to donation or acquisition with the owner's consent and shall be subject to the additional criteria set forth in the Plan. Requires the Secretary to offer assistance regarding continued involvement of the town of Epping, New Hampshire, in the implementation of the Plan and in consideration of potential future addition of that portion of the River within Epping as a component of the System. Authorizes appropriations.
Strengthening Community Safety Act of 2010 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to make a grant to an eligible first responder agency for the additional costs incurred as a direct result of one or more of its employees who are reservists being placed on active duty. Defines eligible first responder agency as one for which the cost of operating has increased by not less than 5 as a direct result of such employees being placed on active duty. Prohibits the Administrator from making a grant for costs relating to an employee being placed on active duty if federal funds are used for that employee's pay or benefits. Authorizes the use of grant funds for: (1) pay or benefits for an individual hired to replace such an employee. (2) overtime expenses for an individual who performs tasks that would have been performed by such an employee. And (3) the cost of equipment, maintenance, or other activities the agency was unable to acquire or perform because of the cost of replacing such an employee or the need for which was caused by an employee being placed on active duty. Limits the grant period to six months.
Protecting American Trade Secrets and Innovation Act of 2012 - Amends the federal criminal code to authorize a person who is aggrieved by an act of economic espionage, theft of a trade secret, or misappropriation of a trade secret that is related to or included in a product that is produced for or placed in interstate or foreign commerce to bring a civil action under this Act . Requires a complaint filed in such an action to: (1) describe with specificity the reasonable measures taken to protect the secrecy of the alleged trade secrets in dispute, and (2) include a sworn representation by the party asserting the claim that the dispute involves either substantial need for nationwide service of process or misappropriation of trade secrets from the United States to another country. Authorizes the court, in a civil action, upon ex parte application and if the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that issuing the order is necessary to prevent irreparable harm, to issue an order providing for: (1) the seizure of any property used or intended to be used to commit or facilitate the commission of the alleged violation, and (2) the preservation of evidence. Sets forth provisions regarding the scope of such an order, rights of a party injured by a seizure under such an order, and remedies with respect to civil actions brought under this Act. Establishes a three-year limitations period, beginning when the misappropriation is discovered or should have been discovered.
Derivatives and Hedge Fund Regulatory Improvement Act of 2008 - Directs the appropriate federal banking agencies, with respect to the entities under their respective jurisdictions that engage in transactions involving unregistered hedge funds or over-the-counter derivatives, to initiate a coordinated rulemaking to: (1) extend to unregistered hedge funds the requirements governing the safety and soundness of the financial system applicable to mutual funds. (2) provide for the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives that are not traded on a national securities exchange or by a registered securities association. And (3) prohibit insured depository institutions from trading derivatives for their own accounts. Requires the appropriate federal banking agencies and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to promulgate rules designed to: (1) avoid systemic risks to the financial markets. (2) ensure safe and sound operation of banks, including mandatory maintenance of sufficient capital levels and limits on aggregate leverage, and restrictions on buying, selling, or entering into derivatives by an insured depository institution for its own account. And (3) provide means to prevent fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative practices.
Protecting Seniors' Medicare Choices from Obamacare Act of 2014 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to eliminate the increased Medicaid federal medical assistance percentage for prisoners with respect to their hospital care under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Amends SSA title XVIII (Medicare) part C (MedicareChoice) to establish a Medicare Advantage (MA) stabilization program under which the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) shall distribute a stabilization funding amount to each eligible MA plan for plan year 2015 to address any beneficiary plan inadequacies.
Embassy Employee Compensation Act - Directs the Attorney General, through the Special Master appointed under the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001, to administer compensation to American victims of the August 7, 1998, bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. Authorizes appropriations. Requires claimants to provide information to the Special Master concerning the physical harm suffered and any possible economic and noneconomic losses incurred from the bombings, as well as the collateral sources of compensation received or entitled to be received, defined as life insurance, pension funds, death benefit programs and payments by Federal, State, or local governments. Sets a two-year limit on filing claims, beginning after the promulgation of regulations to implement the Act. Directs the Special Master to determine whether a claimant is eligible for compensation and, if so, the amount to be disbursed based on harm suffered, facts of the claim, and individual circumstances of the claimant. Prohibits the Special Master from considering negligence or any other theory of liability with regard to claimants. Requires completion of the review and determination of a claim within 120 days after it is filed. Makes the Special Master's decision on a claim final and not subject to judicial review. Specifies that punitive damages may not be awarded. Requires that any award be reduced by collateral source compensation a claimant has received or is entitled to receive. Makes eligible to receive compensation any US citizens who suffered physical harm from the bombing of the United States embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, or from the bombing of the embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Permits personal representatives of US citizens killed by either bombing to receive compensation on behalf of the deceased. Limits claims to one per individual. Provides that upon filing a claim, an individual waives the right to seek damages in civil suits in Federal or State courts, except for pursuing collateral source compensation. Requires the Special Master to authorize payments to eligible claimants not later than 20 days after the date on which the determination of the amount has been made. Declares that this Act constitutes budget authority in advance of appropriations Acts and represents the obligation of the Federal Government to provide for the payment of compensation under the Act. Authorizes the Attorney General to accept contributions from individuals, business concerns, and other entities to carry out the Act, and directs the Attorney General to use donated funds before appropriated funds. Declares that the United States has the right of subrogation with respect to any claim paid from US funds under the Act.
States that the filing of a citizen petition review shall not cause the Secretary of Health and Human Services to delay review and approval of an abbreviated new drug application unless the petition demonstrates through substantial scientific proof that approval would pose a threat to public health and safety. Allows a drug to be considered a bioequivalent to a listed drug if the effects of such drug and the listed drug do not show a significant difference based on certain tests or studies. Provides for an accelerated date of approval of a generic drug application. Expresses the sense of Congress that measures should be taken to effectuate the purpose of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 to make generic drugs more available and accessible, thereby reducing health care costs.
Job Creation and Affordable Housing Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to make a grant to each state equal to such state's low-income bond-subsidized housing election amount. Defines low-income bond-subsidized housing election amount as an amount a state may elect which does not exceed 85 of the state's bond-subsidized credit amount for low-income buildings. Requires states to use grants to make subawards to finance the construction or acquisition and rehabilitation of qualified low-income buildings. Requires the return of grant funds not used to make such subawards before January 1, 2012. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) deny a low-income housing tax credit for bond-subsidized buildings that received a subaward under this Act. (2) allow a five-year carryback of unused low-income housing tax credit amounts and a carryback for new low-income housing investments in 2010 and 2011. And (3) allow a full offset of low-income housing tax credits against regular income tax liability.
Treatment of Indian Tribal Natural Resource Income Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to prohibit the imposition of income taxes or income derived from a natural resources-related activity conducted by: (1) a member of an Indian tribe directly or through a qualified Indian entity. Or (2) a qualified Indian entity. Prohibits the imposition of employment taxes on remuneration paid for services performed in natural resources-related activity by one member of a tribe for another member of such tribe or for a qualified Indian entity.
Homeland Security Professional Development Act of 2006 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish: (1) the Homeland Security Mentoring Program for DHS employees, the goals of which shall include addressing critical human capital deficiencies, recruitment and retention efforts, and succession planning and promoting cross-disciplinary mentoring and training opportunities. And (2) the Homeland Security Rotation Program to provide middle level DHS employees the opportunity to broaden their knowledge through exposure to other DHS components. Requires such programs to be: (1) established in accordance with DHS's Human Capital Strategic Plan. And (2) administered by the Training Leaders Council . Requires the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to report annually to specified congressional committees on the training, mentoring, and succession plans and programs of federal agencies.
NAFTA Worker Adjustment Assistance Act - Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to provide trade adjustment assistance to workers adversely affected by the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between the United States and Mexico. Makes such workers eligible for assistance if the Secretary of Labor determines that: (1) increases of imports like or directly competitive with imports produced by such workers' firm contributed importantly to a separation and decline in sales. (2) NAFTA contributed importantly to a shift in US production in Mexico. Or (3) the workers are employed in the manufacture of motor vehicles in the United States. Makes such assistance available during the phase-in period of the Agreement. Revises provisions under the trade adjustment assistance program concerning reemployment assistance to include labor market information, job development, and job search and placement services. Makes funds available to States to provide such services. Increases the funds available for training under such program. Requires the establishment of a standardized reporting system to determine the effectiveness of State-run programs. Directs the President to negotiate an agreement for the temporary imposition of a de minimis uniform fee on all articles imported into the United States from Mexico to fund trade adjustment assistance programs needed as a result of NAFTA. Requires, if the President is unable to negotiate such an agreement, that a certain portion of tariffs imposed on Mexican imports be used to fund such programs. Transfers any increase in duties to the Trade Adjustment Assistance Trust Fund. Authorizes appropriations to such Fund as necessary.
Equal Access to Quality Education Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of Education to award competitive matching grants to partnerships between high-need local educational agencies (LEAs) and institutions of higher education (IHEs) to: (1) establish or support teacher preparation programs, and (2) establish or support teacher induction and retention programs. Requires the teacher preparation programs to: (1) require participants to complete at least one year of residency followed by at least three years of teaching at the LEA's high-need schools, and (2) award participants a teaching credential or degree that meets state requirements for a teaching license or certification upon their completion of the program. Requires the teacher induction and retention programs to provide teachers with: (1) high-quality professional development. (2) updated information on developments in curricula, assessments, and educational research. (3) a mentor teacher and other support if they are new teachers. And (4) leadership opportunities. Allows the grants to be used for certain other activities designed to improve the quality of education in high-need areas. Gives grant priority to partnerships that: (1) have a plan to recruit teachers from among minority and local candidates and the disabled, (2) use a valid and reliable teacher performance assessment. Or (3) include an IHE eligible to participate in the TEACH Grant program, a Tribal College or University, an Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution, an Hispanic-serving institution, or an historically Black college and university.
Deter Cyber Theft Act - Requires the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to annually report to specified congressional committees on foreign countries that engage in economic and industrial espionage in cyberspace with respect to US trade secrets or proprietary information. Requires each report to identify countries that engage in such espionage as well as countries that engage in the most egregious forms of such espionage. Directs the President to exclude from entry into the United States any article produced or exported by an entity identified within any such report, as long as the President determines that such exclusion is warranted for the enforcement of intellectual property rights or to protect the integrity of the Department of Defense (DOD) supply chain.
Canine Members of the Armed Forces Act - Directs the Secretary of Defense (DOD) to classify military working dogs as canine members of the Armed Forces. Requires that such dogs no longer be classified as equipment. Provides that if a dog should be retired, and no suitable adoption is available at the military facility where the dog is located, the dog may transferred to the 341st Training Squadron or to another location for adoption. Authorizes the acceptance of the donation of frequent traveler miles to facilitate the adoption of a dog. Directs the Secretary to establish and maintain a system to provide for the lifetime veterinary care of retired, adopted dogs. Requires the Secretary to administer the system under a contract awarded by the Secretary to a private non-profit entity. Requires such care to meet standards that the Secretary shall establish and periodically update. Requires any costs of the operation and administration of the system and of any veterinary care provided under the system to be covered by such combination of the following as the Secretary and the non-profit entity jointly consider appropriate: (1) contributions from the non-profit entity, (2) payments for such care by owners or guardians of such dogs, and (3) other appropriate non-federal sources of funds. Prohibits the use of federal funds to provide care or operate the system, except for funds used to establish or administer the system, establish standards of care, or prescribe related regulations. Directs the Secretary to create a decoration or other appropriate recognition to recognize dogs that are killed in action or perform an exceptionally meritorious or courageous act in service to the United States.
Money Laundering Prevention Act of 1999 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to submit a report to specified congressional committees on private banking activities in the United States. Amends Federal banking law to direct the Secretary to prescribe regulations which require financial institutions to maintain all accounts in such a way as to ensure that: (1) the the name of the account holder and the number of the account are associated with all account activity of such holder. And (2) all such information is available for purposes of account supervision and law enforcement. Directs the Secretary to develop criteria for identifying areas outside the United States in which money laundering activities are concentrated, designate such areas as high-intensity money laundering areas, provide a written notice to each insured depository institution and each depository institution holding company that controls an insured depository institution of the identity of the country designated, and provide a written warning that there is a concentration of money laundering activity in such country. Authorizes the court to double the sentence of fine, imprisonment, or both, that could be otherwise imposed if the person commits the violation with respect to a transaction involving a person in, a relationship maintained for a person in, or a transport of a monetary instrument involving a foreign country, knowing that a designation of the foreign country as a high-intensity money laundering area was in effect at the time of the violation. Amends the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 to direct that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System: (1) take into consideration the effectiveness of the company in combating and preventing money laundering activities, including in overseas branches. (2) not consider any application involving any company which is the subject of any pending Federal investigation of possible money laundering or other related financial crimes, or pending Federal prosecution for such crimes, until such investigation or prosecution is completed and a finding is made, with an exception. And (3) disapprove any such application involving a company which has been found criminally or civilly liable for such a crime during the five-year period preceding consideration of such application by the Board.
Rural Telemedicine Enhancing Community Health (TECH) Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish telehealth pilot projects for the purpose of analyzing the clinical outcomes and cost effectiveness associated with telehealth services in a variety of geographic areas. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) provide for expansion of originating telehealth sites for stroke telehealth services. (2) provide access to store-and-forward telehealth services in facilities of the Indian Health Service and federally qualified health centers. And (3) direct the Secretary to establish reasonable regulations to consider the remote credentialing and privileging standards for originating sites with respect to telehealth services.
Public Retiree's Investment Act of 2009 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to guarantee eligible investments, or reguarantee a guarantee of eligible investments, by any public pension bank capital infusion fund mutually owned by state and local pension plans for the sole purpose of investing in preferred stocks of US banking institutions. Requires each public pension plan with a mutual ownership interest in a capital infusion fund to be authorized by state law to establish, or participate in the formation of, a wholly owned mutual fund or a limited liability corporation, in the case of joint ownership with other public pension plans. Caps the maximum amount of investments by such such a capital infusion fund at $50 billion. Restricts eligible investments to those in the preferred stock of a qualifying financial institution under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) Capital Purchase Program established under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA).
Welfare Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act (SSA) in order to make various specified changes to the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. Prohibits States from providing cash TANF benefits for a minor child born to a TANF recipient family with other children or to a person with other children who received TANF assistance during the ten-month period ending with the birth of the child, with certain exceptions for rape or incest, unless the State elects to opt out of the application of such prohibition. Exempts from such prohibition a minor child born into a family with no other children. Requires termination of TANF assistance after the TANF recipient's third refusal to engage in required work activities. Increases from 50 percent to 75 percent the minimum work participation rate required under TANF for FY 2002 and thereafter. Prohibits Federal TANF funds to States which do not establish random drug testing programs under which the TANF assistance for individual family recipients who test positive for controlled substance use is terminated. Amends SSA title XVI to expressly provide that nothing in it shall be construed to authorize recruitment activities under such title, including with respect to any outreach programs or demonstration projects.
Private Property Protection Act of 1995 - Requires the Federal Government to compensate a property owner whose use of that property has been limited by an agency action, pursuant to a specified regulatory law, that diminishes the fair market value of that property by 20 percent or more, for that diminution in value. Requires the Government to buy at fair market value any portion of a property whose value has been diminished by more than 50 percent. Declares that property with respect to which compensation has been paid under this Act shall not thereafter be used contrary to the limitation imposed by the agency action, unless: (1) the action is later rescinded or vitiated. And (2) the property owner refunds the amount of the compensation to the Treasury. Provides that if a use is a nuisance as defined by State law or local zoning ordinance, no compensation shall be made under this Act with respect to a limitation on that use. Prohibits compensation from being made under this Act with respect to: (1) an agency action the primary purpose of which is to prevent an identifiable hazard to public health and safety or damage to specific property other than the property whose use is limited. Or (2) an agency action pursuant to the Federal navigational servitude, except as such servitude is applied by US courts to wetlands. Sets forth the procedures by which a property owner may seek compensation under this Act. Subjects any payment under this Act to the availability of appropriations. Requires any agency taking an action limiting private property use to give appropriate notice of rights and compensation procedures to the property owners. Declares that: (1) nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit any right to compensation under the Constitution or other Federal law. And (2) payment of compensation shall not confer on the Federal Government any rights other than the use limitation resulting from the agency action.
Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop and implement a fraud, waste, and abuse comprehensive prepayment review Prevention System for reviewing claims for reimbursement under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. Requires the Secretary to carry out the system acting through the Center for Program Integrity of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Requires the Prevention System to cover all types of providers and suppliers under the Medicare program, but allows it to be limited to a subset of claim segments. Requires the Prevention System to: (1) be a high volume, rapid, near real-time information technology solution which includes data pooling and scoring capabilities to quickly and accurately capture and evaluate data. (2) identify high-risk Medicare claims by scoring all such claims in near real-time before payment is made, (3) involve a statistically sound, empirically derived predictive modeling technology. And (4) utilize a fraud management system that presents score, reason codes, and treatment actions for high-risk scored transactions, and a feedback loop to gain access to outcome information on adjudicated Medicare claims. Prohibits the Secretary from making a payment on a claim selected for review until it has been reviewed under the System.
Manhattan Project National Historical Park Act - Establishes the Manhattan Project National Historical Park as a unit of the National Park System, which may be composed of specified facilities, lands, or interests in one or more eligible areas or parts of such areas in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Los Alamos, New Mexico. And Hanford, Washington. Directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to enter into an agreement to govern their respective roles in administering the facilities, lands, or interests in land under the DOE's jurisdiction to be included in the Park. Adds to the Park lands, interests in land, or facilities within the eligible areas which are acquired by the Secretary or are included in an amendment to the agreement. Requires the Secretary to develop a general management plan for the Park. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) provide interpretive tours of historically significant Manhattan Project sites and resources in Tennessee, New Mexico, and Washington state that are located outside the boundary of the Park. And (2) enter into one or more agreements with the head of a federal agency to provide public access to, and management, interpretation, and historic preservation of, historically significant Project resources under the agency's control.
Work Force Diversity Partnership Act of 1993 - Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to award grants for public-private partnerships to encourage work force diversity through study of relevant issues and development of education and training materials and programs. Makes eligible for such grants institutions of higher education in partnership with for-profit or nonprofit corporations, businesses, or partnerships, labor organizations, or organizations with demonstrated interest or expertise in such issues. Gives priority to grant proposals demonstrating availability of sufficient amounts of non-Federal contributions, or resources from non-governmental entities. Requires peer review panels, recipient reports, and annual reports by the Secretary. Authorizes appropriations.
True Understanding of the Economy and Safety Act or TRUE Safety Act - Directs the Comptroller General (GAO), after the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) reports to Congress on an hours of service field study, to assess the methodology followed by the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) in carrying out the efficacy of the restart rule published on December 27, 2011, which applies to operators of commercial motor vehicles of property subject to maximum DOT driving time requirements. Requires the assessment to evaluate the extent to which that methodology meets the requirements of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21) that: (1) the data collected is representative of the drivers subject to the restart rule, (2) the methodology is statistically valid, and (3) the study followed the FMCSA plan for the quot, Scheduling and Fatigue Recovery Project. quot. Directs GAO to assess the Regulatory Impact Analysis that accompanied the final 2011 restart rule. Nullifies the 2011 restart rule until six months after the study report required by this Act has been submitted to Congress. Prohibits the Secretary from applying the restart rule if the conclusions of the field study completed pursuant to MAP-21 do not support or concur with the conclusions of the laboratory study on which the rule was based.
Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004 - Amends the National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 to: (1) adjust the boundary of the Barataria Preserve Unit of Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve in Louisiana by increasing the acreage limitation. And (2) authorize the Secretary of the Interior to acquire any such additional land, water, and interests in land and water by donation, purchase, transfer from any other Federal agency, or exchange. Requires, with respect to the Bayou aux Carpes Addition and the CIT Tract Addition, any federal land acquired in such Additions to be transferred without consideration to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service. Permits the acquisition of any private land in those Additions only with the owner's consent. Subjects any Federal land in the CIT Tract Addition to any easements that have been agreed to by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Army. Modifies andor eliminates certain provisions related to the acquisition of property within the Unit. Permits hunting, fishing, and trapping within the Unit. Continues to provide for the designation of zones where, and established periods when, no hunting, fishing, or trapping shall be permitted except for public safety reasons.
Gulf Coast College Revitalization Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that the assistance provided under this Act to revitalize institutions of higher education (IHE) affected by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita is a first step toward revitalizing and restoring the economic, social, and cultural prosperity of the entire Gulf Coast region. Directs the Secretary to award grants to IHEs adversely affected by a Gulf hurricane disaster to assist the affected institutions in recruiting and retaining students and retaining faculty. Directs the Secretary to assume or cancel repayment obligations for qualified loan amounts under specified student loan programs under the Higher Education Act of 1965 for certain borrowers who return to or enroll in such affected IHEs in academic years 20052006, 20062007, or 20072008, and obtain associates or bachelors degrees from such IHEs. Designates such provisions for institutional grants and student loan forgiveness under this Act as emergency requirements pursuant to specified budget provisions of H. Con. Res. 95 of the 109th Congress.
Intermodal Shipping Container Security Act - Directs the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security to take into account a certain National Maritime Transportation Security Plan to ensure that the strategy for dealing with threats to transportation security incorporates relevant aspects of the Plan and addresses all modes of commercial transportation to, from, and within the United States. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to submit to Congress a strategic plan for integrating security for all modes of transportation by which intermodal shipping containers arrive, depart, or move in interstate commerce. Establishes the Senior Steering Group to develop solutions to conflicts among constituent agencies regarding intermodal shipping container security. Amends Federal shipping law to direct the Secretary of Transportation to develop a system to increase the number of intermodal shipping containers physically inspected , monitored, and tracked within the United States. Requires, beginning in 2007, no less than 50 percent of all ocean-borne shipping containers entering the United States to incorporate Smart Box or equivalent technology. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to: (1) report to Congress a preliminary plan for strengthening the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection's container targeting system. (2) issue regulations reducing from 60 days to 45 days after arrival at a US port the time period for revisions to a container manifest that is submitted to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. (3) develop a system to share threat and vulnerability information with all of the industries in the supply chain. And (4) substantially increase under the Container Security Initiative the number of US Customs Service inspectors assigned to duty outside of the United States with responsibility for inspecting intermodal shipping containers being shipped to the United States. Directs the Under Secretary to implement a plan for random inspection of shipping containers in addition to any targeted or preshipment inspection of such containers required by law. Sets forth civil penalties for discrepancies found in container manifests.
Focus on Children Act This bill amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to produce studies and reports regarding federal spending on children. The CBO must provide: studies of legislation containing changes in spending on children, upon the request of a congressional committee, an annual report regarding spending on children. And an annual report on the President's budget request for spending on children. The CBO may provide a warning report to Congress regarding a fiscal year in which outlays for interest on the public debt will exceed spending on children. The CBO must also develop and maintain a public website that includes: the reports and studies required by this bill, a dashboard containing key indicators and visualization tools to assist the public in understanding trends in spending on children, and an open data portal that contains quantitative data on federal spending on children.
Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for prospective payment under Medicare for inpatient rehabilitation hospital services and units based on discharges classified by functional-related groups.
Public Health Pesticides Protection Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act to direct the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to consider the risks and benefits of public health pesticides separately from the risks and benefits of other pesticides. Requires the Administrator, in weighing any regulatory action concerning a public health pesticide, to weigh any risks of the pesticide against the health risks to be controlled by the pesticide. Defines: (1) a public health pesticide as a minor use pesticide registered for use and used predominantly in public health programs for vector control or other health protection uses. And (2) vector as any animal capable of transmitting the causative agent of human disease or of producing human discomfort or injury. Exempts from reregistration fees public health pesticides of which more than 50 percent of usage is devoted to the promotion of public health. Provides for expedited processing and review of pesticide applications that propose the initial or amended registration of an end use pesticide that, if registered as proposed, would be used as a public health pesticide. Provides for review by the Secretary of Health and Human Services of registrations of public health pesticides proposed for cancellation. Directs the Administrator to identify pests of significant public health importance and to implement programs to improve and facilitate the safe use of methods to combat such pests.
Fair Gift Card Act of 2009 - Declares it unlawful, with certain exceptions, for any person to impose a dormancy fee, inactivity charge or fee, or a service fee with respect to a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card. Declares it unlawful, with certain exceptions, for any person to sell or issue a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card that is subject to an expiration date. Requires any violation of this Act to be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed under the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Global AIDS Research and Relief Act of 2001 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to revise requirements for assistance for health programs in developing countries to require the agency primarily responsible for administering this Act to coordinate with specified organizations, including other Federal agencies, to develop and implement effective strategies to prevent vertical transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and to increase intervention programs and introduce voluntary counseling and testing, antiretroviral drugs, replacement feeding, and other strategies. Urges such agency to: (1) make HIV and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) a priority in the foreign assistance program for developing foreign countries. And (2) undertake a comprehensive, coordinated effort to combat HIV and AIDS, including providing programs to strengthen and broaden health care systems infrastructure and capacity to deliver HIVAIDS pharmaceuticals, prevention, and treatment to those afflicted with HIVAIDS. Authorizes appropriations. Urges that priority be given to programs that address the support and education of orphans in sub-Saharan Africa, including AIDS orphans, and prevention strategies for vertical transmission of HIV.
Servicemembers Credit Protection Act - Amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to direct the Secretary of Defense, in case of the deployment of a servicemember away from their usual duty station to duty for which the servicemember is entitled to special pay, to notify each consumer reporting agency (agency): (1) of the deployment of such servicemember within 30 days after the deployment. And (2) within 30 days after the end of such deployment. Requires the Secretary, in providing such notice, to take measures to ensure agency compliance with provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act with respect to the servicemember. Increases penalties for consumer credit reporting violations involving servicemembers deployed to an overseas combat zone. Amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to require each agency that receives a combat zone duty alert from the Secretary with respect to a servicemember to: (1) include the alert in the file of that consumer and provide such alert along with any credit score, until notified by the Secretary that the consumer no longer qualifies for such alert. And (2) during the period of the alert, exclude the consumer from any list provided to a third party to offer credit or insurance to such consumer as part of a transaction not initiated by the consumer. Requires the combat zone duty alert included in any consumer's file to include a summary of the consumer's rights under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the duties of creditors and other persons to the consumer.
Jason's Law - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to: (1) implement a pilot program to allocate funds to states, metropolitan planning organizations, and local governments that submit an application approved by the Secretary for eligible projects to establish long-term parking facilities for commercial motor vehicles (trucks) on the National Highway System. And (2) give priority to applicants that demonstrate a severe shortage of truck parking capacity and whose proposed projects are likely to have positive effects on highway safety, traffic congestion, or air quality.
Workers' Political Rights Act - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to permit a labor organization to make political communications and establish and solicit contributions for a separate segregated political fund if it provides the employees it represents with written notification of specified information.
Drinking Water Affordability Act of 2016 This bill amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to revise requirements concerning national primary drinking water regulations, including by: removing a requirement that the Environmental Protection Agency maintain, or provide greater, protection of human health when revising those regulations. Extending the repayment schedule for loans from the drinking water state revolving funds (SRF), removing certain SRF matching fund requirement for states, authorizing states to protect public drinking water source areas. And removing federal reporting requirements if state or local requirements are at least equally stringent as federal requirements.
Amends the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to define family office as a company that has no clients other than family clients and is owned, controlled, or operated primarily for the benefit of family clients and does not hold itself out to the public as an investment adviser.
Provides for the relief of James Doyle, doing business as Rocky Mountain Ventures and Environmental Land Technologies, Ltd.
This bill amends the AIDS Housing Opportunity Act to revise the formula and requirements for distributing funds under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With Aids (HOPWA) Program. A grantee that received an allocation in FY2016 shall continue to be eligible for such allocations in subsequent fiscal years, subject to approval by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the amounts available from appropriations Acts. HUD shall: redetermine a grantee's eligibility at least once every 10 years, and ensure that a grantee that received an allocation in the prior fiscal year does not receive an allocation 5 less than or 10 greater than the share of total available formula funds allocated to that grantee in the preceding fiscal year. HUD may also award such funds to an alternative grantee if the original grantee agrees in a written document meeting HUD approval. References to quot, cases of AIDSquot, and quot, AIDS casesquot, shall be replaced by quot, individuals living with HIV or AIDS,quot. Which means, with respect to the counting of cases in a geographic area during a period of time, the sum of: the number of living non-AIDS cases of HIV in the area, and the number of living cases of AIDS in the area.
Prohibits the district courts from exercising jurisdiction over: (1) a civil action if the action is an intrastate case, a limited scope case, or a State action case, (2) any claim concerning a covered security. And (3) any class action solely involving a claim that relates to the internal affairs or governance of a corporation or other form of business enterprise that arises under or by virtue of the laws of the State in which such enterprise is incorporated or organized, or the rights, duties, and obligations relating to or created by or pursuant to any security. Provides that, for purposes of a determination of diversity of citizenship, a member of a proposed class shall be deemed to be a citizen of a State different from a defendant corporation only if that member is a citizen of a State different from all States of which the defendant corporation is deemed a citizen. Allows a class action to be removed to a US district court, but without regard to whether any defendant is a citizen of the State in which the action is brought, except that such action may be removed by: (1) any defendant without the consent of all defendants. Or (2) any plaintiff class member who is not a named or representative class member of the action for which removal is sought, without the consent of all members of such class. Specifies that this section shall apply to any class action before or after the entry of any order certifying a class, except that a plaintiff class member who is not a named or representative class member of the action may not seek removal of the action before an order certifying a class of which the plaintiff is a class member has been entered. Makes provisions relating to a defendant removing a case applicable to a plaintiff removing a case under this section. Specifies that the requirement relating to the 30-day filing period shall be met if a plaintiff class member who is not a named or representative class member of the action for which removal is sought files notice of removal no later than 30 days after receipt by such class member of the initial written notice of the class action provided at the court's direction. Makes this section inapplicable to any: (1) claim concerning a covered security. And (2) class action solely involving a claim that relates to the internal affairs or governance of a corporation or other form of business enterprise that arises under or by virtue of the laws of the State in which it is incorporated or organized, or the rights, duties, and obligations relating to or created by or pursuant to any security. Provides that if the case stated by the initial pleading is not removable, a notice of removal may be filed within 30 days after receipt by the defendant of a copy of an amended paper from which it may first be ascertained by exercising due diligence that the case is one which is or has become removable, with an exception. Requires the court to dismiss the action if, after removal, it determines that no aspect of an action that is subject to its jurisdiction solely under this Act may be maintained as a class action under rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Permits an action so dismissed to be amended and filed again in a State court, but allows any such re-filed action to be removed again if it is an action of which the US district courts have original jurisdiction. Specifies that in any action dismissed pursuant to this section that is re-filed by any of the named plaintiffs therein in the same State court venue in which the dismissed action was originally filed, the period of limitations on all reasserted claims shall be deemed tolled for the period during which the dismissed class action was pending. Deems the limitations periods on any claims that were asserted in a class action dismissed pursuant to this section that are subsequently asserted in an individual action to be tolled for the period during which the dismissed class action was pending. Directs the Comptroller General of the United States to conduct a study of the impact of this Act on the workload of the Federal courts and report to Congress.
Heroin and Prescription Opioid Abuse Prevention, Education, and Enforcement Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to convene a Pain Management Best Practices Inter-Agency Task Force. Reauthorizes the Harold Rogers Prescription Drug Monitoring Program through FY2019. Requires the Comptroller General (GAO) to report on the effectiveness of the program in reducing prescription drug abuse and any corresponding increase or decrease in the use of heroin. Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to reauthorize the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program through FY2019. Requires the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) to: revise the 2011 Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention Plan to reassess the approach to addressing prescription drug abuse in light of an increase in heroin use and to outline actions or programs to reduce and prevent such abuse, and ensure that ONDCP takes into account a specified GAO report concerning program coordination and identifies opportunities to enhance interagency coordination as part of the Plan. Requires the Secretary to advance the education and awareness of providers, patients, and stakeholders regarding the risk of abuse of prescription opioid drugs if such products are not taken as prescribed. Directs ONDCP to establish a national drug awareness campaign that: takes into account the association between prescription opioid abuse and heroin use, and emphasizes the similarities between heroin and prescription opioids and the effects of these on the human body.
Reserve Account for Administrative Savings Act of 1993 - Amends Federal law to require that appropriated salaries and expenses be apportioned. Requires the establishment of reserve accounts equal to five percent of the actual amount incurred for those salaries and expenses in the immediately preceding fiscal year. Provides procedures for such funds to be permanently rescinded, released and spent, or used to offset supplemental appropriations.
Social Security Caregiver Credit Act of 2018 This bill credits annbsp. Individual with deemed wages, for purposes of calculating Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance benefits,nbsp. For up to five years of service as a caregiver of a dependent relative. Specifically, an individual shall be deemed to have been paid a wage during each month in which the individual was engaged for at least 80 hours in providing care to a dependent relative without monetary compensation. However, this requirementnbsp. Shall not apply if a larger benefit or payment would otherwise be payable.
Judicial Administration and Improvement Act of 2016 sic This bill divides the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit into: (1) a new Ninth Circuit, to be composed of California, Hawaii, Oregon, Washington, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. And (2) a newly established Twelfth Circuit, to be composed of Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Montana, and Nevada. The bill designates locations where the new circuits are to hold regular sessions. The bill distributes active circuit judges of the former Ninth Circuit to the new circuits. Circuit judges and senior circuit judges currently stationed in Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Montana, or Nevada may elect their circuit assignment. For each circuit judge in regular service who elects to be assigned to the new Ninth Circuit, the President shall appoint one additional circuit judge for the Twelfth Circuit.
Medicare Fraud and Abuse Control Act of 1995 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a federal program to prevent, detect, and control fraud and abuse under Medicare. Requires the Secretary to pay a portion of any civil monetary penalty for a Medicare violation to any person or entity whose information led to the imposition of that penalty. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act: (1) to require that a statement soliciting information of any fraud or abuse be included with every explanation of benefits received and notice of payment made under Medicare. And (2) to double the amount of criminal and civil monetary penalties that are assessed for various Medicare violations.
International and Foreign Language Studies Act of 2004 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to revise provisions for international and foreign language studies . Includes support for instructors of less commonly taught languages among activities of national language and area centers and programs. Makes undergraduate students eligible for fellowships for foreign language and area or international studies . Allows a portion of funds for undergraduate international studies and foreign language programs to be used for subgrants to undergraduate students for educational programs abroad that promote foreign language literacy and cultural knowledge and are closely linked to grant program goals. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to support data collection, analysis, and dissemination that helps achieve part A purposes. Extends and increases the authorization of appropriations for part A.
Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-Cost, Timely Healthcare Act of 2005 or the HEALTH Act of 2005 - Sets forth provisions regulating lawsuits for health care liability claims concerning the provisions of health care goods or services or any medical product affecting interstate commerce. Sets a statute of limitations of three years after the date of manifestation of injury or one year after the claimant discovers the injury, with certain exceptions. Provides that nothing in this Act limits recovery of the full amount of available economic damages. Limits noneconomic damages to $250,000. Makes each party liable only for the amount of damages directly proportional to such party's percentage of responsibility. Allows the court to restrict the payment of attorney contingency fees. Limits the fees to a decreasing percentage based on the increasing value of the amount awarded. Prescribes qualifications for expert witnesses. Requires the court to reduce damages received by the amount of collateral source benefits to which a claimant is entitled, unless the payor of such benefits has the right to reimbursement or subrogation under Federal or State law. Authorizes the award of punitive damages only where: (1) it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a person acted with malicious intent to injure the claimant or deliberately failed to avoid unnecessary injury such person knew the claimant was substantially certain to suffer. And (2) compensatory damages are awarded. Limits punitive damages to the greater of two times the amount of economic damages or $250,000. Prohibits a health care provider from being named as a party in a product liability or class action lawsuit for prescribing or dispensing an Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved prescription drug or device. Provides for periodic payments of future damage awards.
District of Columbia Tax Revenue Nondiscrimination Act of 1997 - Repeals various District of Columbia Code property tax exemptions for specified organizations located in the District of Columbia. Amends specified Federal laws to permit the District of Columbia Government to tax: (1) the Federal National Mortgage Association, (2) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and (3) the Student Loan Marketing Association .
Includes an operator of an Internet web site or other third party within the scope of limitations on disclosure of records currently applicable to electronic communication service (ECS), and remote computing service (RCS), providers. Limits any such disclosure to non-government entities except: (1) as necessary to initiate, provide, bill, or collect for such service or for access to or use of such Internet web site, or to protect the rights or property of the provider. (2) as made at the request of the subscriber or customer, or with the affirmative consent of the subscriber or customer given at the time the disclosure is sought. Or (3) as required by law. Includes within the scope of such restrictions on disclosure information generated in the process of accessing or otherwise using the Internet. Authorizes a provider of ECS or RCS, operator of an Internet web site, or third party to use, disclose, or permit access to aggregate customer or subscriber information from which individual customer or subscriber information and characteristics have been removed. Prohibits a provider of ECS, RCS, or an operator of an Internet web site from terminating the provision of such service or access to, or use of, such web site to an individual who refuses to consent to the disclosure of records or other information under this Act as a result of such refusal. Preempts any State or local law regarding the disclosure by providers of ECS, RCS, and operators of Internet web sites of records or other information covered by this Act.
Humanitarian Assistance to Combat HIVAIDS in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean and National Security Act of 2003 - Declares the sense of Congress that: (1) effectively addressing the HIVAIDS problem in countries in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean is a moral issue of the greatest magnitude and is in the national security interest of the United States. And (2) the President should enter into direct talks with the governments of other member countries of the G-8 and member countries of the European Union to increase the amount of financial support to combat the HIVAIDS pandemic in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean. Authorizes the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to award grants to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) for the prevention, treatment, and control of HIVAIDS in countries in sub-Saharan Africa and Caribbean countries, including treatment, medical care, and support services to HIV-infected parents and their children. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, should provide appropriate medical and technical expertise to the Administrator and recipient governments. Authorizes the Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of HHS, to appoint to the country team in each US embassy in sub-Saharan Africa and the Caribbean a health officer to advise the US Ambassador and assist in coordination of the effort to combat HIVAIDS with local governments.
National Policies Toward Gambling Review Act of 1995 - Establishes a Commission on the Review of National Policies Toward Gambling to conduct a comprehensive legal and factual study of: (1) gambling activities in the United States, (2) their social and economic impact. And (3) existing Federal, State, and local policy and practices with respect to legal prohibition and taxation of such activities, particularly the relationship between the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act and State and local laws.
Cut Taxes for the Middle Class Act of 2014 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend through 2014: (1) the tax deduction for state and local general sales taxes in lieu of state and local income taxes, (2) the tax deductionnbsp. For qualified tuition and related expenses, (3) the tax deduction for expenses of elementary and secondary school teachers, (4) the tax credit for differential wage payments to employees who are active duty members of the Uniformed Services, (5) the work opportunity tax credit, (6) the new markets tax credit, and (7) the tax credit for increasing research activities. Amends the Housing Assistancenbsp. Tax Act of 2008 to extend through 2014 the exemption of the basic military housing allowance from the income test for programs financed by tax-exempt housing bonds. nbsp, 
Paskenta Band Restoration Act - Extends Federal recognition and restores rights and privileges of the Paskenta Band of Nomlaki Indians of the Paskenta Rancheria of California.
Worldwide Tobacco Disclosure Act of 1997 - Prohibits the use of appropriated funds by any US employee, department, or agency to: (1) seek, through negotiation or otherwise, the removal or reduction by any foreign country of any nondiscriminatory law that restricts the advertising, manufacture, packaging, taxation, sale, importation, labeling, or distribution of tobacco products. Or (2) promote the export, advertising, manufacture, sale, or distribution of tobacco products. Makes it unlawful to export from the United States, or to sell or distribute in, or export from, any other country, any cigarettes whose package does not contain a warning label that: (1) complies with Federal labeling requirements for cigarettes manufactured, imported, or packaged for sale or distribution within the United States. And (2) is in the primary language of the country in which the cigarettes are intended for consumption. Authorizes the President to waive such prohibition if the importing country has similar or more stringent labeling requirements. Sets forth penalties for violation of this Act.
Enacts title 51 of the United States Code into positive law to be entitled National and Commercial Space Programs. Makes conforming changes to existing law and repeals specified provisions of specified laws.
Small Business Health Relief Act of 2011 - Repeals provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), as added by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), that: (1) impose fines on large employers who fail to offer their full-time employees the opportunity to enroll in minimum essential health insurance coverage. And (2) require such large employers to file a report with the Secretary of the Treasury on health insurance coverage provided to their full-time employees. Repeals provision of PPACA that: (1) set limits on the annual deductible on health plans offered in the small group market, (2) allow catastrophic plans to be offered in the individual market to individuals under the age of 30, and (3) impose an annual fee on health insurance entities. Deems high deductible health plans to meet essential health benefits coverage requirements if the enrollee has established a health savings account. Amends the Public Health Service Act, as amended by PPACA, to repeal a provision that allows a premium rate variance by age in the individual or small group market. Repeals restrictions on payments for medications from health savings accounts, medical savings accounts, and health flexible spending arrangements to prescription drugs or insulin. Repeals provisions limiting annual salary reduction contributions by an employee to a health flexible spending arrangement under a cafeteria plan to $2,500. Allows a health plan to maintain its status as a grandfathered health plan regardless of any modification to the cost-sharing levels, employer contribution rates, or covered benefits. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to promulgate regulations to clarify the application of such provision. Makes this provision effective as if included in PPACA. Voids any regulations promulgated related to such provisions before enactment of this Act.
Civil Rights Voting Restoration Act of 2014 - Declares that the right of a US citizen to vote in any election for federal office shall not be denied or abridged because the individual has been convicted of a non-violent criminal offense, unless, at the time of the election, the individual is serving a sentence in a correctional facility or a term of probation. Restores the right to vote of an individual on probation: (1) on the date the term of probation ends, if such term is less than one year. Or (2) one year after the date the individual begins serving the term of probation, if such term is one year or longer. Directs the Attorney General to determine and establish a list of the criminal offenses under federal and state law that are non-violent criminal offenses. Provides for enforcement of, and remedies for violations of, this Act. Sets forth requirements for state and federal notification of individuals of their voting rights pursuant to this Act. Prohibits a state, local government, or other person from receiving or using federal grant amounts to construct or improve a place of incarceration unless that person has in effect a program under which each incarcerated individual is notified, upon release, of his or her rights under this Act.
Amends the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA), for each of the 2014-2018 crops of each market commodity, to make recourse loans available to producers on a farm electing to participate in the program. Sets forth: (1) the recourse loan rate for corn, oats, barley, grain sorghum, wheat, and soybeans. And (2) market commodity-specific limitations on participation for such crops. Requires participating producers, until the Secretary authorizes loan repayment and release, to: (1) store and maintain the market commodity, and (2) not sell or otherwise release the commodity into the market. Provides that during such storage period: (1) title to the commodity shall remain with the producers, and (2) the Secretary shall have a first lien on the commodity for which a recourse loan is received. Provides USDA payments to producers at $0.40 per bushel per crop year. Authorizes the Secretary to establish a partial commodity release if the market release of all of the stored commodity would depress prices below the release level. Authorizes the Secretary to establish a set-aside program under which qualifying producers on a farm may remove acres from production for the following crop year if the inventory cap for a commodity is reached and such commodity's market price is below the recourse loan rate. Requires participating producers to maintain a cover crop on all enrolled acreage.
Transfers administrative jurisdiction of certain Federal lands in Stoddard County, Missouri, from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Agriculture for continued operation of the Mingo Job Corps Civilian Conservation Center. Maintains Department of Labor agreements with respect to such Center. Transfers eligible employees, with their benefits and without a break in Federal service and without competition, from the Department of the Interior, US Fish and Wildlife Service, to the Department of Agriculture. Authorizes appropriations.
Federal Airports Security Enhancement Act - Amends Federal aviation law to direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to establish at each airport a Security Committee which shall make recommendations for minimum security counter-measures. Requires the Administrator, on the basis of such recommendations, to prescribe appropriate changes to improve the performance of existing airport security procedures. Requires the screening of passengers and property that will be carried in a cabin of an aircraft to be carried out by Federal Protective Service employees or agents. Authorizes the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA) to appoint police officers and special agents for the policing of all Federal buildings . Sets forth certain additional powers of such officers and agents, including the authority to carry firearms and to police areas adjacent to Federal property. Establishes the Federal Protective Service as a separate operating service of the GSA. Calls for at least 1,000 full-time equivalent Service police officers to be assigned to areas outside of airport operations. Requires the Commissioner of the Service to prescribe minimum employment and training standards to be applied in the contracting of security personnel for the policing of buildings and areas controlled by the United States and GSA. Authorizes GSA to recover airport security costs from the FAA.
Government Paperwork Elimination Act - Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget: (1) in providing direction and overseeing the acquisition and use of information technology, to include alternative information technologies that provide for electronic submission, maintenance, or disclosure of information as a substitute for paper and for the use and acceptance of electronic signatures. (2) to develop procedures for the use and acceptance of electronic signatures by executive agencies. (3) to ensure that, within five years, executive agencies provide for the option of electronic maintenance, submission, or disclosure of information as a substitute for paper and for the use and acceptance of electronic signatures, when practicable. (4) to develop procedures to permit private employers to store and file electronically with executive agencies forms containing information pertaining to employees. And (5) in cooperation with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, to conduct and report to Congress on an ongoing study of the use of electronic signatures on paperwork reduction and electronic commerce, individual privacy, and the security and authenticity of transactions. Provides for: (1) the enforceability and legal effect of electronic records and signatures. (2) protection from disclosure of information collected in the provision of electronic signature services for executive agencies. And (3) applicability exceptions with respect to administration of the internal revenue laws.
Keep Our Homes Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow: (1) a tax deduction through 2012 for mortgage counseling costs. (2) a tax deduction through 2009 for amounts, up to $5,000, of mortgage indebtedness in excess of the assessed value of a principal residence. (3) a one-time tax credit for a percentage of the purchase price of a principal residence. (4) nonitemizing taxpayers a tax deduction in 2008 or 2009 for real property taxes. And (5) an exclusion from gross income for unemployment compensation received in 2008 or 2009.
World Trade Center National Memorial Act - Authorizes the establishment as a unit of the National Park System of a national memorial at or near the site of the World Trade Center (WTC) in New York City to commemorate the significance to the Nation of the events of September 11, 2001. Requires the design and boundary of the memorial to be: (1) determined through a public planning process established by the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. And (2) approved by the Secretary of the Interior, the Governor of New York, and the Mayor of New York City. Establishes the World Trade Center Memorial Advisory Board upon transfer of the completed memorial to the National Park Service.
Caregiver Corps Act of 2014 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to contract with a nonprofit to develop an online toolkit and guidance providing for the establishment and implementation of Caregiver Corps volunteer programs in which volunteers provide assistance to individuals who are in need of assistance to remain in the community and are either aged 65 or older, or eligible for Social Security Disability Insurance. Requires Caregiver Corps volunteers to provide assistance by giving an informal caregiver respite from caregiving duties, serving as a companion, or providing other assistance for which the volunteer is qualified. Prohibits volunteers from providing personal care or administering prescription medications. Allows the Secretary to award grants for the operation of local Corps programs. Requires local Corps programs to screen, train, and supervise volunteers. Directs local Corps programs to appropriately recognize volunteers. Allows programs to provide compensation to volunteers.
Smith-Mundt Modernization Act of 2012 - Amends the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 to authorize the Secretary of State and the Broadcasting Board of Governors to provide for the preparation and dissemination of information intended for foreign audiences abroad about the United States, including about its people, its history, and the federal government's policies, through press, publications, radio, motion pictures, the Internet, and other information media, including social media, and through information centers and instructors. Authorizes the Secretary and the Board to make available in the United States motion pictures, films, video, audio, and other materials prepared for dissemination abroad or disseminated abroad pursuant to such Act, the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, or the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act. Amends the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 to prohibit funds for the Department of State or the Board from being used to influence public opinion or propagandizing in the United States. Applies such prohibition only to programs carried out pursuant to the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994, the Radio Broadcasting to Cuba Act, and the Television Broadcasting to Cuba Act. States that such provision shall: (1) not prohibit the Department or the Board from providing information about its operations, policies, programs, or program material, or making such information available to members of the media, public, or Congress. (2) not be construed to prohibit the Department from engaging in any medium of information on a presumption that a US domestic audience may be exposed to program material. And (3) apply only to the Department and the Board and to no other federal department or agency.
Personal Exemption Fairness Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require annual metropolitan statistical area cost-of-living adjustments, beginning after 2010, to the personal tax exemption amount. Directs the Secretary of Labor to determine and publish a cost-of-living index for each metropolitan statistical area.
Marginal Well Production Preservation and Enhancement Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase to 27.5 the percentage depletion allowance for domestic crude oil and natural gas production from marginal properties. (2) extend through 2010 the temporary suspension of the taxable income limit with respect to marginal production of crude oil and natural gas. And (3) accelerate to three years the recovery period of qualified tertiary injectant property for depreciation purposes. Amends the Clean Air Act with respect to emissions from small oil and gas exploration and production-related equipment. Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to: (1) amend the definition of wastewater treatment facility to include produced water from an oil production facility. And (2) require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish cost-effective minimal requirements for the prevention of oil and hazardous substance discharges for small facilities with oil storage capacities of less than 50,000 gallons at which no single tank exceeds a nominal capacity of 21,000 gallons.
IFQ Act of 2001 - Amends the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act to authorize, subject to referenda approval, the establishment of, and conditions for, individual fishery quota systems.
Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Accessibility and Partnership Act of 1996 - Modifies certain restrictions on motorboat use on specified lakes within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, Minnesota. Permits the operation of motorized vehicles and associated equipment to assist in the transport of a boat across the portages from the Moose Lake Chain to Basswood Lake, from Fall Lake to Basswood Lake, and from Lake Vermilion to Trout Lake. Establishes the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Intergovernmental Council to develop, review, monitor implementation of, and, if necessary, modify a comprehensive management plan for the Wilderness. Prohibits the Council from considering: (1) removing the wilderness designation, (2) allowing mining, logging, or commercial or residential development. Or (3) allowing motorized uses not otherwise authorized. Provides for review, recommendations for revisions, and approval or disapproval of such plan by the Secretary of Agriculture. Prohibits the Secretary, pending approval of the plan, from issuing any regulation that relates to the Wilderness, except for: (1) regulations required for routine business, such as issuing permits, visitor education, maintenance, and law enforcement, and (2) emergency regulations.
Federal Employee Short-Term Disability Insurance Act of 2011 - Requires the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to establish and administer a program for short-term disability insurance coverage for federal employees for: (1) an injury or disability that is not work related, (2) leave to care for a family member, and (3) leave to make arrangements to become a foster parent or to adopt a child. Disqualifies an employee for such insurance if an injury or disability is caused by willful misconduct, a self-inflicted injury, or intoxication. Requires the Director to contract with one or more insurance carriers for disability insurance coverage plans, without regard to competitive bidding requirements. Requires such plans to contain a detailed statement of benefits offered, the premiums charged, and the duration of the enrollment period. Authorizes the Director to prescribe reasonable minimum standards for benefits offered by such plans, including a prohibition against excluding or penalizing an employee for a preexisting condition. Requires individuals eligible for coverage under a disability insurance plan to be responsible for 100 of the premiums for the coverage offered. Establishes in the Employees' Life Insurance Fund a Non-Work Related Disability Insurance Administrative Account, which shall be available to OPM to defray reasonable expenses incurred in administering this Act and to which contracted carriers shall make contributions necessary to cover such expenses.
Shaken Baby Syndrome Prevention Act of 2007 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through various federal agencies, to develop a national Shaken Baby Syndrome public health campaign. Requires the Secretary to: (1) develop a National Action Plan and effective strategies to increase awareness of opportunities to prevent Shaken Baby Syndrome. And (2) coordinate the Plan and strategies with evidence-based strategies and efforts that support families with infants and other young children. Directs the Secretary to carry out communication, education, and training about Shaken Baby Syndrome prevention, including efforts to communicate with the general public, such as by: (1) disseminating effective prevention practices and techniques to parents and caregivers, (2) producing evidence-based educational and information materials. And (3) carrying out Shaken Baby Syndrome training. Requires the Secretary to work to ensure that the parents and caregivers of children are connected to effective supports through the coordination of existing programs and networks or the establishment of new programs, including a 24-hour phone hotline and the development of an Internet website for round-the-clock support. Establishes a Shaken Baby Awareness Advisory Council to develop recommendations: (1) regarding the National Action Plan and effective strategies. And (2) related to support services for families and caregivers of young children.
Motor Vehicle Safety Whistleblower Act - Prescribes certain whistleblower incentives and protections for motor vehicle manufacturer, part supplier, or dealership employees or contractors who voluntarily provide the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) information relating to any motor vehicle defect, noncompliance, or any violation of any notification or reporting requirement which is likely to cause unreasonable risk of death or serious physical injury. Authorizes the Secretary to pay awards to one or more whistleblowers in an aggregate amount of up to 30 of total monetary sanctions collected pursuant to an administrative or judicial action resulting in aggregate monetary sanctions exceeding $1 million. Prohibits an award to any whistleblower who knowingly and willfully makes false representations. Subjects such a whistleblower to criminal penalties.
Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center Act of 2008 - Authorizes the Secretary of Defense (Secretary), upon the conclusion of a resource-sharing agreement between the Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to transfer to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) the Navy ambulatory care center, parking structure, supporting facilities, and related medical personal property and equipment in Great Lakes, Illinois. Designates such facility and supporting facilities as the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center (Center). Provides a reversionary interest to the Secretary if the property is not used in accordance with the resource-sharing agreement or in the event of lack of facilities integration. Authorizes the Secretary to transfer to the VA functions necessary for Center operation. Extends through FY2020 a joint Department of Defense (DOD)-VA program to identify, implement, and evaluate creative health care coordination and sharing initiatives at the facility, intraregional, and nationwide levels. Deems the Center a military facility for purposes of the eligibility of members of the Armed Forces to receive care and services there.
Prepare All Kids Act of 2009 - Creates a part I under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Implements such part by requiring the Secretary of Education to establish a Prekindergarten Incentive Fund from which matching grants shall be awarded to states and, through them, subgrants to qualified prekindergarten providers to establish, expand, or enhance voluntary high quality full-day prekindergarten programs serving children ages three through five. Directs state grantees to set aside: (1) at least 15 of their grant for quality early childhood development programs for children ages zero through three. And (2) at least 10 of their grant to extend the hours of early childhood programs to create extended day and year programs. Requires prekindergarten subgrantees to: (1) maintain a maximum class size of 20 children, with at least 1 prekindergarten teacher per classroom. And (2) ensure that the ratio of children to prekindergarten teachers and teacher aides does not exceed 10 to 1.
Cuba Sanctions Reform Act of 2004 - Provides for the expiration of certain trade and travel restrictions with respect to Cuba unless such restrictions are renewed annually by a specified renewal resolution of the two Houses of Congress. Authorizes the President with respect to Cuba to: (1) impose certain export controls, and (2) exercise certain emergency economic powers.
Brownfield Cleanup and Redevelopment Revolving Loan Fund Pilot Project Act of 1996 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to establish a pilot project to provide capitalization loans to States to establish or expand revolving loan funds that provide loans for voluntary environmental cleanups of eligible facilities . Authorizes appropriations. Makes ineligible for such assistance facilities that are: (1) eligible for abatement actions, or subject to Federal enforcement action, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980. (2) on or proposed for inclusion on the National Priorities List or evaluated as high priority under the hazard ranking system. (3) subject to certain actions, or unqualified to conduct certain hazardous waste disposal activities, under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, or (4) owned or operated by the United States.
Atchafalaya National Heritage Area Act - Establishes the Atchafalaya National Heritage Area in Louisiana. Designates the Atchafalaya Trace Commission as the local coordinating entity of the Heritage Area. Prohibits the use of Federal funds authorized under this Act to acquire real property. Requires the Commission to develop and implement a management plan, subject to the Secretary of the Interior's approval, that incorporates an integrated and cooperative approach to conserve, interpret, and enhance the resources of the Heritage Area. Establishes a procedure for the voluntary inclusion of private property in the Heritage Area.
National Invasive Species Council Act - Declares that no Federal agency may authorize, fund, or carry out any action that would likely cause or promote the introduction or spread of an invasive species in the United States or any other location, unless the agency head determines that: (1) the benefits outweigh the potential harm to the environment, economy, or human health. And (2) all feasible and prudent measures to minimize the risk or harm will be taken. Requires the Council for Environmental Quality, in conjunction with the National Invasive Species Council, to develop guidelines for such measures. Establishes within the executive branch the National Invasive Species Council to ensure that Federal agency efforts concerning invasive species are coordinated, effective, complementary, and cost-efficient. Requires the Council to develop a National Invasive Species Management Plan that details and recommends performance-oriented goals. Requires the Council to create the Invasive Species Advisory Committee to provide information and advice for consideration by the Council. Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to prepare and submit to Congress and the Council a yearly budget analysis and summary of all Federal programs relating to invasive species.
Amends Federal civil service law to authorize the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) to establish a three-year program to provide Federal employees and agencies with alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes to apply to workplace disputes and disagreements involving removals, suspensions for more than 14 days, and other adverse actions under Federal civil service law. Directs the MSPB to test and evaluate a variety of ADR techniques. Authorizes the MSPB to implement its early intervention ADR, allowing any agency or employee to request such early intervention, and authorizing the MSPB Chairman to designate up to three agencies with a substantial number of MSPB appeals for participation in a mandatory early intervention ADR program. Allows any employee or agency to request ADR once an appeal or petition for review of a case is filed with the MSPB. Outlines MSPB procedures for such cases. Direct the MSPB's Office of Policy and Evaluation to establish criteria for evaluating the ADR program and to prepare a report as to whether mandatory ADR is desirable, effective, and appropriate for cases decided by Federal administrative agencies. Authorizes appropriations for the ADR program. Establishes the MSPB Administrative Judge Pay Schedule, with pay levels comparable to that of immigration judges and administrative law judges. Provides, with respect to such Schedule, for initial appointment and advancement, and transition provisions for current judges. Authorizes appropriations to carry out such Schedule.
This bill designates the Department of Veterans Affairs: (1) health care system in Lexington, Kentucky, as the quot, Lexington VA Health Care System,quot. (2) health care facility at 1101 Veterans Drive, Lexington, Kentucky, as the quot, Troy Bowling Campus,quot. And (3) health care facility at 2250 Leestown Road, Lexington, Kentucky, as the quot, Franklin R. Sousley Campus. quot, 
Rural Equity Payment Index Reform Act of 2003 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to establish a minimum geographic cost-of-practice index value for physicians' services furnished under the Medicare program.
Scenic Columbia Gorge Restoration Act of 2017 This bill directs the Forest Service to begin proposing, within 30 days of a catastrophic event, response activities for lands within a national scenic area that have been adversely impacted by the event. The bill provides a process for expedited environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, including a categorical exclusion not exceeding 10,000 acres for a response activity.
Amends the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 to establish the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Small Dollar Loan-Loss Guarantee Fund to defray the cost of losses on specified qualifying consumer loans made by certain CDFIs and institutions whose primary mission is to serve low- to moderate-income individuals. Authorizes appropriations to implement the program and to provide technical assistance grants to applicants to develop and support a small dollar loan program. Authorizes the Administrator of the CFDI Fund to borrow from the Treasury as necessary to maintain Fund solvency.
National Security Readiness Act of 2003 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA) to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from designating as critical habitat any land or geographical area controlled by the Department of Defense, or designated for its use, that is subject to an integrated natural resources management plan for a military installation under the Sikes Act, if the Secretary determines that the plan addresses special management considerations or protections. Amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (MMPA) to redefine the term harassment as it relates to marine mammals to limit the meaning of: (1) any act that has the potential to injure a marine mammal or marine mammal stock in the wild to any act that has the significant potential to cause such an injury. And (2) any act that disturbs or is likely to disturb a marine mammal or marine mammal stock in the wild by causing a disruption of natural behavioral patterns to causing such a disruption to the point where such behavioral patterns are abandoned or significantly altered. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, after conferring with the Secretary of Commerce or the Secretary of the Interior , to exempt any action undertaken by the Department of Defense from requirements of the MMPA, if the Secretary of Defense determines that the action is necessary for national defense. Limits such exemption to a renewable two-year period. Repeals the limitation to a specified geographical region or a region of small numbers of any allowance of incidental, but not intentional, taking of marine mammals by US citizens engaged in a specified activity other than commercial fishing. Exempts the Secretary of the Interior from the requirement to publish notice with respect to incidental takings of marine mammals and marine mammal products while engaged in military readiness activities authorized by the Secretary of Defense. Limits the Department of Defense responsibility under ESA for water consumption impacts on critical habitats or endangered species to: (1) water consumption occurring on a military installation, whether the source of the water consumed is located on or off the installation. Or (2) water consumption occurring off of a military installation and the source of the water is under the direct control of the Department of Defense. States that nothing shall prohibit a military installation from voluntarily undertaking efforts to mitigate water use and consumption.
Access for All America Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to: (1) increase and extend the authorization of appropriations for community health centers and for the National Health Service Corps scholarship and loan repayment program for FY2010-FY2015, and provide for increased funding for such programs in FY2016 and each subsequent fiscal year. And (2) revise and expand provisions allowing a community health center to provide services at different locations, adjust its operating plan and budget, enter into arrangements with other centers to purchase supplies and services at reduced cost, and correct material failures in grant compliance.
Comprehensive TB Elimination Act of 2014 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Drug Shortages Strategic Plan to include plans to ensure coordination between the Drug Shortages Task Force and the Federal Tuberculosis Task Force. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Department of Health and Human Services, when awarding grants for the prevention, control, and elimination of tuberculosis, to give priority to state health departments proposing to focus on high-risk populations, including foreign-born, homeless, and uninsured populations. Authorizes the Health Resources and Services Administration to award grants to state and local governments and federally qualified health centers to coordinate their programs and services to ensure timely and appropriate prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of tuberculosis. Requires the Federal Tuberculosis Task Force to advise federal officials on strategies and systems to prevent and mitigate shortages of tuberculosis drugs. Reauthorizes the national strategy for combating and eliminating tuberculosis through FY2019. Allows the National Institutes of Health to enhance research on pediatric tuberculosis and tuberculosis infection and progression.
Women in Trauma Act of 2002 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, to award grants to build treatment interventions simultaneously addressing trauma, substance abuse and psychiatric disorders, including the integration of existing interventions. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, to make grants and provide technical assistance for the provision of comprehensive community-based mental health and substance abuse services to women with a history of physical or sexual abuse or other trauma. Targets minority community services. Requires such services to be multidisciplinary and provide coordinated and simultaneous treatment for multiple issues, be individualized as well as gender- and culture-specific, and include services for children, if needed. Authorizes the use of grant funds for childcare to facilitate participation.
Senior Executive Service Diversity Assurance Act of 2009 - Requires the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to establish within OPM the Senior Executive Service Resource Office . Makes it the mission of the SES Resource Office to: (1) improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and productivity of the Senior Executive Service (SES) through policy formulation and oversight, (2) advance the professionalism of the SES. And (3) recruit qualified individuals from appropriate sources to ensure that the SES is reflective of the nation's diversity. Sets forth the functions of the SES Resource Office with respect to the management, training, oversight, and recruitment activities of the SES. Revises the career appointments recruiting process to require agency heads to ensure diversity of executive resources boards and any subgroup or other evaluation panel related to the merit staffing process for career appointees by including members of racial and ethnic minority groups, women, and individuals with disabilities. Requires each federal agency to submit to OPM a plan to enhance and maximize opportunities for the advancement and appointment of minorities, women, and individuals with disabilities to the SES.
PLO Accountability Act of 2017 This bill amends the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1987 to authorize the President to waive for up to six months the prohibition against establishment or maintenance of Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) offices, headquarters, premises, or other facilities within US jurisdiction if the President certifies to Congress that the Palestinians have entered into a final negotiated peace agreement with, and have ceased hostilities against, Israel or that: the Palestinians have not, on or after January 1, 2017, obtained state standing in the United Nations or any specialized agency thereof outside an agreement negotiated between Israel and the Palestinians. The Palestinians have officially ceased to be International Criminal Court (ICC) members and have withdrawn from the Rome Statute of the ICC. Any ICC investigation against Israel initiated by, or on behalf of, the Palestinians has been withdrawn and terminated. The PLO and the Palestinian Authority (PA) no longer provide financial awards, payments, salaries, or benefits to Palestinians who have committed terrorist attacks, their families, or the families of those who died committing acts of terrorism. And the PLO and the PA have ceased to engage in a pattern of incitement against the United States or Israel.
Housing Assistance for Veterans Act of 2012 or HAVEN Act - Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to establish a pilot program to award grants to nonprofit organizations that primarily serve veterans or low-income individuals. Requires such grants to be used to rehabilitate and modify the primary residence of disabled or low-income veterans . Limits grant amounts to $1 million per organization. Requires the Secretary to direct the oversight of grant fund use. Requires a minimum of 50 matching funds by participating organizations.
Terminates the Commission six months after submission of its final report. Authorizes appropriations.
Financial Literacy and Education Coordinating Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish within the Office of Financial Education of the Department of the Treasury, the Financial Literacy and Education Coordinating Committee to: (1) coordinate Federal financial literacy and education efforts. (2) develop and implement a national strategy to promote basic financial literacy and education among all Americans. (3) reduce overlap and duplication in Federal financial literacy and education activities. (4) identify the most effective types of public sector financial literacy programs and techniques, as measured by improved consumer decision making. And (5) coordinate and promote financial literacy efforts at the State and local level, including partnerships among Federal, State, and local governments, nonprofit organizations, and private enterprises.
Codifies under Federal armed forces law certain provisions under prior defense appropriations Acts which prohibit funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense from being used to procure the following items if such items are not grown, reprocessed, reused, or produced in the United States: (1) food, (2) clothing, (3) tents, tarpaulins, or covers. (4) cotton and other natural fiber products, silk or silk blends, synthetic fabrics, canvas products, or wool. (5) any equipment manufactured from or containing such fibers, yarns, fabrics, or materials, (6) specialty metals, including stainless steel flatware. And (7) hand or measuring tools. Allows an exception: (1) when the item cannot be procured when needed, (2) for certain procurements outside the United States. (3) for certain specialty metals and chemical warfare protective clothing procured outside the United States, (4) for foods manufactured or processed in the United States. And (5) for small purchases under the defense simplified acquisition threshold. Makes such prohibitions applicable to contracts for the procurement of commercial items under the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act.
National Monument Creation and Protection Act This bill amends the Antiquities Act of 1906 to allow the President to declare by public proclamation an object or objects of antiquity that are situated on lands owned or controlled by the federal government to be national monuments. quot, Objects of antiquityquot. Means relics, artifacts, human or animal skeletal remains, fossils, and certain buildings constructed before enactment of this bill. The bill prescribes limits on land that may be declared to be a national monument based on acreage, proximity to other national monuments, whether it has been reviewed by the Department of the Interior or Agriculture (USDA) under the National Environmental Policy Act, and whether it has been approved by each county and state within whose boundaries it will be located. Such limitation shall not apply to a designation made to prevent imminent and irreparable harm to the object or objects of antiquity to be protected. Such exception shall end after one year and may be used only once. The President may reduce the size of any declared national monument: (1) by 85,000 acres or less. Or (2) by more than 85,000 acres only if the reduction has been approved by each county and state within whose boundaries the monument will be located and reviewed by Interior or USDA under the National Environmental Policy Act. The bill prohibits any land from being declared as a national monument in a configuration that would place nonfederally owned property within the monument without first obtaining the owners' written consent.
Building Energy Tax Credit Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for 35 of the cost of energy conservation commercial building property installed as part of a commercial building energy project within the jurisdiction of a state energy credit agency. Requires a building, to be eligible for such credit, to achieve an energy consumption rate of not more than 60 of the rate established by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 90.11-2207 for commercial buildings.
Requires the Secretaries of Commerce and the Interior to: (1) conduct a study to determine if the distribution of year classes in the Atlantic striped bass population is appropriate for maintaining adequate recruitment and sustainable fishing opportunities. And (2) report results to specified congressional committees along with a long-term plan to ensure a balanced and healthy population structure of Atlantic striped bass. Authorizes appropriations. Subtitle B: Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Cooperative Management - Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Act of 2000 - Amends the Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Cooperative Management Act to extend the authorization of appropriations to carry out such Act through FY 2005. Authorizes amounts to be used to support the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission's cooperative statistics program. Title II: John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Grant Program - Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Act of 2000 - Amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to direct the Secretary of Commerce to establish the John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Grant Program to provide assistance to eligible stranding network participants for: (1) marine mammal recovery and treatment, (2) data collection from living or dead marine mammals. And (3) facilities operation. Caps grants at $100,000. Require s a 25 percent non-Federal matching amount, which may be in-kind contributions. Authorizes FY 2001 through 2003 appropriations. Requires the Secretary to study environmental and biological factors responsible for the significant increase in mortality events of the eastern gray whale population and other potential impacts these factors may be having on such population. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary to convey a retired National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration fishery research vessel to the Government of American Samoa. Amends the National Marine Sanctuaries Act to revise sanctuary designation standards. Amends the Sustainable Fisheries Act to authorize appropriations for each fiscal year for grants to carry out Western Pacific fishery demonstration projects to promote traditional indigenous fishing practices.
Improving Department of State Oversight Act of 2015 This bill grants competitive status for appointment to a position in the competitive service for which the employee is qualified to any employee of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction (SIGRI) who was not terminated for cause, and who completes at least 12 months of service at any time before the termination of the SIGRI on October 5, 2013. The Secretary of State shall certify to Congress that the Department of State has made reasonable efforts to ensure the integrity and independence of the Office of the Inspector General Information Technology systems. Each State Department entity under the Foreign Service Act of 1980 shall report within five business days to the Inspector General (IG) any allegations of: program waste, fraud, or abuse. Criminal or serious misconduct on the part of a Department employee at the FS-1, GS-15, GM-15 level or higher, criminal misconduct on the part of any Department employee. And serious, noncriminal misconduct on the part of any individual who is authorized to carry a weapon, make arrests, or conduct searches . No State Department entity with concurrent jurisdiction over such matters, including the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, may initiate an investigation without first reporting the allegations to the IG. A State Department entity that initiates an investigation of such a matter must fully cooperate with the IG, unless the IG authorizes an exception.
Patient Access to Durable Medical Equipment Act of 2016 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to delay by one yearnbsp. The full implementation of new Medicare payment rates for durable medical equipment . nbsp, In addition, the billnbsp, specifies that the bid ceiling for durable medical equipment itemsnbsp. Under Medicare's competitive acquisition program shall not be less than the fee schedule amount that would otherwise be determined for those items. Under current law, the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS) must use payment information from competitive acquisition programs to make payment adjustments for durable medical equipment items furnished in areas outside of such programs. Current law also allows, but does not require,nbsp. CMS to make such adjustments with respect to certain orthotics and parenteral and enteral nutrients, equipment, and supplies . nbsp, The bill requires CMS, in makingnbsp, these adjustments, to account fornbsp. Stakeholder input. In addition, CMS must account for a comparison of competitive acquisition areas and other areas with respect to the following factors: average travel distance and cost associated with furnishing items and services, barriers to access, average delivery time, average volume of items and services furnished by suppliers, and number of suppliers. In four quarterly reports, CMS must publish on its website the results of the monitoring of health outcomes and Medicare beneficiaries' accessnbsp. To durable medical equipment. The bill accelerates the applicability, from January 1, 2019, to October 1, 2018,nbsp, of provisions of current lawnbsp, that limitnbsp, federalnbsp. Medicaid reimbursement to states for durable medical equipment to Medicare payment rates.
National Treatment in Banking Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) identify the extent to which foreign countries may be denying national treatment to US banking organizations. And (2) assess whether the possible denial of national treatment to such banking organizations may be having a significant adverse effect upon them. Authorizes the Secretary to publish notice of such assessments in the Federal Register. Amends the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and the National Bank Act to direct the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Comptroller of the Currency to take into account whether the Secretary has published such notice in the Federal Register when considering applications by foreign banks or other persons of a foreign country. Declares that no authority under this Act or any amendment it makes to any other law may be used to take any action with respect to a foreign country which is inconsistent with any bilateral or multilateral agreement that governs financial services in which such country is obligated to provide national treatment for US banking organizations.
Older Americans Act Technical Amendments of 1993 - Makes numerous miscellaneous technical amendments necessitated by the enactment of the Older Americans Act Amendments of 1992 to various provisions of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (OAA), including those extending the deadlines for certain reports to the Congress, and those under OAA and other specified Federal laws elevating the Commissioner on Aging to Assistant Secretary for Aging within the Department of Health and Human Services. Amends the Older Americans Act Amendments of 1992 to: (1) extend the deadlines for obligating funds for operation of the National Ombudsman Resource Center and National Center on Elder Abuse. And (2) delay the applicability of certain amendments, including those relating to vulnerable elder rights protection activities. Amends the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to: (1) make numerous miscellaneous technical amendments. And (2) authorize appropriations for FY 1994 for demonstration projects for research related to Native American studies and Indian policy development and for a plan for the establishment of a National Center for Native American Studies and Indian Policy Development. Amends the Older Americans Amendments of 1987 to: (1) extend the deadline for the President to convene the White House Conference on Aging. (2) authorize appropriations for FY 1995 and 1996 for the Conference. And (3) make miscellaneous technical amendments regarding Conference administration and availability of funds. Amends the Community Services Block Grant Act to: (1) make miscellaneous technical amendments to various provisions of such Act, (2) change annual reporting requirements. And (3) split the discretionary grants program for rural housing and community facilities into two separate items. Amends specified Federal law authorizing appropriations for the continued implementation of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to replace references to the Development Block Grant Act Amendments of 1992 with references to the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990. Amends the Child Abuse, Domestic Violence, Adoption and Family Services Act of 1992 to make certain changes to the State grant program for child abuse and neglect prevention and treatment effective only after annual appropriations reach $40 million.
Medicaid Directory of Caregivers Act or the Medicaid DOC Act This bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to require a state to publish and annually update a directory of providers thatnbsp, participate in the state plan fornbsp. Medical assistance on a fee-for-service basis or through a primary care case-management system. nbsp. The directory must include each provider's name, specialty, address, and telephone number. nbsp. In addition, with respect to a provider that participates in a primary care case-management system, the directory must specify: (1)nbsp, the provider's language capabilities, and (2)nbsp, whether the provider is accepting new Medicaid patients.
E-Rate 2.0 Act of 2010 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to implement a five-year pilot program which distributes funding to secondary schools participating in the E-Rate program so that they can provide residential broadband service vouchers to students who are eligible to participate in the school lunch program and have a computer at home. Includes community colleges and Head Start agencies in the E-Rate program. Directs the FCC to implement a pilot program that, for the five years following this Act's enactment, is the exclusive source of federal funding for broadband equipment and services for community colleges and Head Start agencies. Requires the FCC to implement a four-year pilot program that allows secondary schools that are eligible for the highest percentage discounted rates under the E-Rate program to apply for meaningfully discounted services and technologies for the use of electronic books. Directs the FCC to: (1) develop and implement policies and procedures to streamline and simplify the E-Rate program application process. And (2) complete the proceeding to revise the E-Rate program funding cap so that the cap accounts for inflation.
International Infectious Diseases Control Act of 2001 - Directs the President to work with foreign governments, the United Nations (UN), the World bank, and the private sector to agree to the establishment of a global fund to fight HIVAIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis through the provision of grants to governments and nongovernmental organizations for implementation of effective and affordable HIVAIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis programs , urging emphasis be given to ensuring strong political leadership in recipient countries. Amends the Global AIDS and Tuberculosis Relief Act of 2000 to repeal the establishment of the World Bank AIDS Trust Fund.
Statewide PTV Access Act of 2009 - Permits a satellite carrier to retransmit the signals of a state-wide network of noncommercial educational broadcast stations to any subscriber in any county within such state that is: (1) outside that station's local market. And (2) not served by an in-state noncommercial educational television broadcast station. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to permit a satellite carrier to retransmit the signals of a television broadcast station outside the station's local market directly to its subscribers if: (1) such station is a part of a network of three or more noncommercial educational broadcast stations that are licensed to a single state, political, educational, or special purpose subdivision of a state, or to a single public agency. And (2) the carrier retransmits such signal only to subscribers in a county within that state that is outside the station's local market and is not served by another in-state noncommercial educational broadcast station.
Art-in-Architecture Act of 1993 - Requires at least one half of one percent of funds made available for new construction, building purchase, acquisition, or prospectus-level repair and alteration projects to be made available for art projects for each Federal building, except when the Administrator of the General Services Administration or a designee may increase or decrease that percentage under specified conditions. Requires the preliminary planning and design of each new Federal building to include planning for art commissions. Directs the Administrator to commission works of art by living American artists to be placed in Federal buildings. Sets forth requirements for commission amount, selection standards, procedures, artwork maintenance, and registry of portfolios.
Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Tax Treatment Act - Allows taxpayers who are plaintiffs in the civil action In re Exxon Valdez, No. 89-095-CV (HRH) (Consolidated) , or their heirs or dependents, to: (1) elect to average, for income tax purposes, income received in settlement of such civil action for the period beginning on January 1, 1994, and ending on December 31 of the year in which any settlement income is received. And (2) make contributions of any amount of such settlement income to certain tax-exempt retirement plans in the year such income is received.
Tapping America's Energy Potential through Research and Development Act of 2012 - Directs the Secretary of Energy (Secretary), acting through the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Fossil Energy, to implement research, development, and demonstration (RD) activities of technologies to: (1) enable safe and responsible production of domestic unconventional oil and gas resources. (2) facilitate commercial application of energy technologies for the exploration, development, and production of oil shale resources including oil, natural gas, and other liquid resources from shale formations. And (3) use produced water, in an environmentally sustainable manner, for agricultural, irrigational, recreational, power generation, municipal, and industrial purposes. Requires oil shale RD activities to include: (1) oil shale resource characterization, (2) modeling and simulation of oil shale exploration and production technologies, and (3) minimization and re-use of water. Requires shale extraction RD activities to include: (1) water use and demand, (2) water sourcing, (3) materials used in shale oil and natural gas operations, and (4) diagnostic imaging and monitoring. Includes among produced water utilization RD activities: (1) produced water recovery, (2) use of produced water for specified environmentally sustainable purposes, and (3) re-injection of produced water into subsurface geological formations to increase energy production. Limits such activities to technology areas that industry by itself is not likely to undertake because of technical and financial uncertainty.
Alerting Lives through Effective and Reliable Technological Systems Act of 2008 or ALERTS Act of 2008 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to: (1) establish a national integrated public alert and warning system. (2) develop within such system a commercial mobile alert system to provide rapid dissemination of information over commercial mobile devices. And (3) designate an agency within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to receive, aggregate, validate, and authenticate homeland security and other information originated by authorized federal, state, local, and tribal governments to facilitate the transmission of such mobile alert system. Requires the Secretary to: (1) establish common alerting and warning protocols, standards of performance, and terminology. (2) include the capability to adapt the dissemination of information and the content of communications on the basis of geographic location, risks, or user preferences and to alert special needs populations. (3) ensure that the national warning system is incorporated into DHS training and exercise programs. And (4) coordinate with other federal agencies, state, local, and tribal governments, and key stakeholders. Directs the Secretary to conduct a pilot program to increase the national warning system's reach. Amends the Implementing Recommendations of the 911 Commission Act of 2007 to authorize the use of grant funds to permit state, local, and tribal governments to improve public alert and warning capabilities. Prohibits tampering or interfering with components of the national warning system that are used or designed to deliver alerts and warnings and that were purchased with public funds.
Directs the Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement, before any funds are obligated for a fiscal year, to submit to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a spending plan for activities funded through the Office of Educational Research and Improvement for such year. Gives to the National Assessment Governing Board exclusive authority over all policies, direction, and guidelines for establishing and implementing voluntary national tests for fourth grade English reading and eighth grade mathematics. Requires such tests to be made available, upon request, to a State, local educational agency, or private or parochial school. Prohibits making the use of such tests a condition for receiving any Federal funds. Directs the Board to review the current national test development contract, and modify it as necessary, or terminate it and negotiate a new contract under the Board's exclusive control. Sets forth Board responsibilities with respect to development of, and content and standards for, such tests. Prohibits a State or local educational agency from requiring any private or parochial school student, or home-schooled individual, to take any test developed under this Act without the student's or individual's written consent. Amends the National Education Statistics Act of 1994 to: (1) revise requirements for appointment of Board members. And (2) provide that the Board, in its exercise of its functions, powers, and duties, shall be independent of the Secretary of Education and the other offices and officers of the Department of Education. Directs the Secretary to appoint individuals to fill vacancies on the Board caused by expiration of member terms or creation of new membership positions under this Act.
st Century Global Health Technology Act - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to establish in the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) the Health Technology Program which shall: (1) develop and introduce technologies designed to improve health and nutrition in developing countries, reduce maternal, newborn, and child mortality, and improve disease diagnosis and prevention, especially HIVAIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases. And (2) be carried out under a cooperative agreement between USAID and one or more institutions with a successful record of advancing such technologies and integrating practical field experience into the research and development process. Codifies the Program.
Amends the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act to add a new congressional statement of purpose which requires all Federal public land managers in Alaska to participate in an ANILCA training class. Defines, for purposes of title XI of such Act, compatible with the uses for which the unit was established to mean activities which would not cause significant adverse impacts on conservation system unit purposes. Requires, under such title, that any alternative transportation or utility system route that may be identified by the head of a Federal agency shall not be less economically feasible and prudent than the route for the system being sought by the applicant. Revises provisions concerning, among other things: (1) right of access to State or private owners or occupiers. (2) the use of snowmobiles, airplanes, and nonmotorized surface transportation for traditional activities. (3) possessory or personalty interests in, as well as alterations to, cabins located on conservation system units, (4) the taking of fish and wildlife. And (5) helicopter landings. Prohibits the Secretary of the Interior from establishing policies for the purpose of administering any study area to preserve wilderness values prior to action by the Congress. Prohibits anything in ANILCA from being construed as limiting or restricting the power and authority of the State of Alaska, except as expressly provided.
Financial Crimes Resources Act of 2009 - Authorizes appropriations for FY2010-FY2012 to the US Secret Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Department of Justice (DOJ), and other federal agencies for the investigation and prosecution of criminal activity involving computers, crimes of fraud involving federal economic assistance and relief programs, and financial crimes, including mortgage fraud, securities fraud, and financial institution fraud. Authorizes the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of DOJ to award grants to states to establish and develop programs for enforcement against criminal activity involving computers and financial crimes.
Requires a referendum to be held by December 31, 1998, on Puerto Rico's path to self-determination either through preserving its current political status, US statehood, or separate sovereignty . Sets forth specified requirements with respect to the referendum and congressional procedures for consideration of legislation.
Federal Surface Transportation Policy and Planning Act of 2009 - Declares it is US policy to develop a national surface transportation system that advances the national interest and defense, interstate and foreign commerce, the efficient and safe interstate mobility of people and goods, and the protection of the environment. Sets forth certain US policy objectives and goals, including to: (1) reduce national per capita motor vehicle miles traveled annually. (2) reduce national surface transportation-generated carbon dioxide levels by 40 by 2030. (3) reduce national surface transportation delays and congestion at US points of entry. (4) increase the total usage of public transportation, intercity passenger rail services, and non-motorized transportation. And (5) ensure adequate transportation of domestic energy supplies. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to: (1) develop performance criteria and data collections systems to evaluate the effectiveness of federal surface transportation programs. (2) implement such programs to meet the policy, objectives, goals, and performance criteria established by this Act. And (3) develop and implement a National Surface Transportation Performance Plan. Authorizes the Secretary to amend the goals established under this Act.
Working Families' Access to Health Innovations Act of 2013 - Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to guarantee up to 90 of a loan made to a health care professional for the acquisition of health information technology for use in such professional's medical practice and for the costs associated with its installation. Provides loan guarantee limits, and authorizes the Administrator to impose a loan guarantee fee. Requires services provided by a small business development center to include: (1) facilitating the training of medical professionals in health information technology systems. And (2) establishing and providing a network of small health information technology companies available to such professionals in low-income and underserved areas for assistance in purchasing, utilizing, and maintaining such technology.
Indian Trust Asset and Trust Fund Management and Reform Act of 2002 - Amends the American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 to create the position of Deputy Secretary for Trust Management and Reform within the Department of the Interior to oversee all Indian trust fund and trust asset matters and to consult with Indian tribes and individual trust asset and trust fund account holders. Directs the Deputy Secretary to establish an advisory board on matters within the jurisdiction of the Office of Trust Reform. Establishes within the office of the Secretary the Office of Trust Reform Implementation and Oversight, headed by such Deputy Secretary, to supervise and direct day-to-day activities concerning such assets or funds, including providing accurate inventories, revenue postings, monthly statements, and annual audits. Requires the development and implementation of a ten-year Indian Trust Fund and Trust Asset Management and Monitoring Plan by either an Indian tribe or the Secretary . Requires the Plan to: (1) determine the amount and source of trust funds, (2) inventory trust assets. And (3) identify tribal and management objectives along with the actions necessary to achieve them. States that the trust relationship and an approved Plan can coexist. Requires the Secretary to manage funds and assets in accordance with such plan and tribal laws, unless compliance would be contrary to the trust responsibility or otherwise prohibited by Federal law. Requires the active participation of Indian tribes in the promulgation of regulations concerning such funds and assets.
Small Business Expansion and Job Creation Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend through 2010: (1) the increased ($250,000) expensing allowance for depreciable business assets. (2) the additional 50 depreciation allowance for certain types of investment property acquired in 2010. And (3) the election to accelerate the tax credits for the alternative minimum tax and research expenditures in lieu of bonus depreciation.
Colorectal Cancer Detection Act of 2018 This bill provides for Medicare coverage and payment, subject tonbsp, specified frequency limits, of certain colorectal cancer screening blood-based tests.
Consumer Affordable Transaction Account Act of 2001 - Requires each insured depository institution to make available to consumers an affordable transaction account containing specified features to be prescribed jointly by the Federal banking agencies, including at least eight free withdrawals per month. Prohibits the imposition of fees upon such account holders which are discriminatory in nature. Authorizes alternative account arrangements. Requires notice of availability of affordable transaction accounts to be posted upon the premises in the same manner as the depository institution posts notice of its other account products. Mandates depository institution compliance with more stringent State law where applicable.
Unemployment Insurance Modernization Act - Amends the Social Security Act to require the Secretary of Labor to make unemployment compensation modernization incentive payments in FY2008-FY2012 by certain transfers from the federal unemployment account to the accounts of the states in the Unemployment Trust Fund. Prescribes a formula for determining the maximum allowable incentive payments. Specifies requirements state law must meet for the state to qualify for such a payment. Limits the use of transferred amounts to the payment of cash unemployment benefits to individuals. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to reserve specified funds out of the federal unemployment account for such incentive payments. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend through FY2013 the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) excise tax imposed on every employer.
Respirator Access Assurance Act of 2005 - States that manufacturers or sellers of respirators shall not be subject to claims for defective design or warning, or any claims based on such allegations, if the respirator in question received National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) approval and was manufactured in compliance with NIOSH-approved design and labeling in effect on the date of manufacture. Provides for withdrawal of a previous NIOSH approval of a respirator on grounds of misrepresentation of material information or bribery of a NIOSH officer or employee . Preempts all state and local laws with regard to such claims. Makes this Act applicable to any civil action in federal or state court for harm allegedly caused by a respirator, respirator manufacturer, or respirator seller. Applies this Act to any action than has not proceeded to trial as of the date of enactment.
National Volcano Early Warning and Monitoring System Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the US Geological Survey (USGS), to establish within USGS a National Volcano Early Warning and Monitoring System program to monitor volcanic activity and to warn and protect US citizens from harm. Sets forth as System purposes to organize, modernize, standardize, and stabilize monitoring systems of US volcano observatories and to unify monitoring systems into a single interoperative system. Sets forth as System objectives to monitor all US volcanoes at a level commensurate with the threat they pose by upgrading existing networks on monitored volcanoes and installing new networks on unmonitored volcanoes. Requires the System to include: (1) a national volcano watch office that is operational 24 hours a day, seven days a week, (2) a national volcano data center. And (3) an external grants program to support research in volcano monitoring science and technology. Directs the Secretary to: (1) submit to Congress a five-year management plan for establishing and operating the System and an annual report, (2) establish an advisory committee. And (3) coordinate activities under this Act with the heads of relevant federal agencies. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with universities and state agencies as volcano observatory partners.
Global Anti-Semitism Awareness Act of 2004 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the United States should continue to support efforts to combat anti-Semitism worldwide through bilateral relationships and interaction with international organizations such as the Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). (2) the US delegation to the OSCE conference in Berlin should advocate for the appointment of a High Commissioner on anti-Semitism. And (3) the President should direct the United States Ambassador to the United Nations to introduce in the United Nations a measure condemning anti-Semitism. Amends the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to authorize and encourage the Secretary of State to establish within the Department of State an Office to Monitor and Combat anti-Semitism. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to include in the Department of State annual reports information on: (1) acts of anti-Semitism in foreign countries. And (2) governmental responses to such acts, including efforts to promote anti-bias education. Makes similar amendments to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.
Limits the waiver of inadmissibility for certain criminal aliens unlawfully present in the United States. Makes an alien who has fraudulently misrepresented a material fact or obtained or sought to obtain immigration-related documents ineligible for a finding of good moral character under such Act. Revises provisions respecting: (1) termination of continuous presence for purposes of cancellation of removal for certain offenses. And (2) detention and release of criminal aliens pending removal decision.
Separation of Powers Restoration Act - States that a presidential order, with specific exceptions, neither constitutes nor has the force of law and is limited in application and effect to the executive branch. Directs the President to provide with each presidential order a statement of the specific statutory or constitutional authority for such action. Authorizes both Houses of Congress, a Senator or Representative, certain State and local officials, and certain aggrieved persons to bring an action to challenge the validity of any presidential order which exceeds the power granted to the President by the relevant authorizing statute or the Constitution. States that, to the extent that any Act of Congress grants to the President or any other executive officer or employee the power to declare a national emergency, such power is divested to Congress alone. Terminates after 90 days all powers and authorities possessed by the President or any other Federal officer or employee or executive agency as a result of the existence of a declaration of national emergency in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
Health Care Consumer Protection Act of 1995 - Requires health insurers to provide notice regarding the extent of plan coverage to enrollees annually and to potential enrollees on request. Requires that, under a health plan, the determination of what is medically necessary and appropriate for a patient be made only by a health care practitioner directly involved in the patient's care. Requires an insurer to pay for a service that is so determined if the service is covered by the plan. Mandates regulations to ensure against insurers offering monetary rewards, penalties, or inducements to a practitioner, or conditioning continued practitioner participation in the plan, on the basis of the practitioner's decisions to limit the availability of appropriate tests, services, or treatments. Imposes a civil monetary penalty for violations of this Act. Prohibits insurers from including provisions in a plan to hold itself harmless for liability. Prohibits States from establishing or enforcing standards weaker than those of this Act.
Federal Public Safety Officer Surviving Spouse Protection Act of 2005 - Revises the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS) to permit, effective as of January 1, 1988, and only for remarriages occurring on or after that date, remarried widows and widowers of Federal public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty to continue to receive a survivor annuity.
Authorizes the United States Court of Veterans Appeals to provide funds to nonprofit organizations to permit such organizations to provide financial assistance to legal assistance entities, which will in turn provide legal advice or representation to veterans before the Court who cannot afford the costs of such advice and representation. Outlines the legal services to be included as part of such advice and representation. Prohibits the legal assistance entity from also charging the individual a fee for such advice or representation. Provides administrative authority for nonprofit organizations to accept funds for the purposes of this Act. Directs the Court to report annually to the Congress on the funds and financial assistance provided under this Act.
Janey Ensminger Act of 2016 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, at least every three years, to: review the scientific literature relevant to the relationship between the employment or residence of individuals at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, for at least 30 days during the period of August 1, 1953, to December 21, 1987, and specific illnesses or conditions incurred by those individuals and determine whether and to what extent the evidence shows that toxic substance exposure is a cause of an illness or condition. And publish and update a list of each illness and the categorization of evidence for which a determination of cause has been made. A veteran who served on active duty at Camp Lejeune for at least 30 days during such period is eligible for hospital care and medical services for any of the illnesses or conditions for which the evidentiary connection between toxic exposure and the illness or condition is categorized in such list as sufficient or modest. Such a veteran who has been furnished hospital care or medical services shall remain eligible for such care or services for such illness or condition even if the evidentiary connection is not categorized as sufficient or modest. A family member of such veteran who has been furnished hospital care or medical services shall remain eligible for hospital care or medical services for such illness or condition. The Department of Veterans Affairs shall transfer for each of FY2017 and FY2018 specified finds to enhance the claims processing system, eligibility system, and web portal for the Camp Lejeune Family Member Program.
Character Development Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award: (1) mentor program grants to eligible local educational agencies to establish mentoring programs designed to link individual at-risk youth with responsible, individual adults who serve as mentors. And (2) implementation and evaluation grants to national organizations or agencies serving youth to conduct a multisite demonstration project, involving five to ten project sites, develop and evaluate screening standards for school-linked mentoring programs, and develop and evaluate volunteer recruitment activities for school-linked mentoring programs. Sets forth permitted and prohibited uses of grant funds awarded under this Act. Directs the Secretary to develop and distribute to eligible local educational agencies receiving a mentor program grant specific model guidelines for the screening of mentors. Sets forth requirements for grant applications, program evaluations and reports by the Comptroller General, and reports by grant recipients. Authorizes appropriations for Mentoring Program Grants and Implementation and Evaluation Grants.
Orphan Drug Act Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to change from seven to four years the period of market exclusivity guaranteed to any approved orphan drug. Specifies that orphan drugs of limited commercial potential, as defined by regulations to be issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, would qualify for an additional three years of exclusive marketing rights. Permits more than one company to put a particular orphan drug on the market in instances where both companies were working on the drug in roughly the same time frame. Provides for the withdrawal of exclusive marketing rights if the patient population for the approved treatment exceeds 200,000. Extends the authorization of the research grant program. Replaces the existing Orphan Products Board with an Office for Orphan Diseases and Conditions.
E-Centives Act of 2009 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide for payments to each state that provides incentive payments to physicians, hospitals, community health centers, rural health clinics, and community mental health centers that exhibit meaningful use of certified health information technology. Directs the Secretary to provide for payments to each state that establishes a program to: (1) design, develop, install, maintain, and operate electronic information and eligibility systems and patient registries for the purpose of disease screening. (2) coordinate benefits and services under Medicare and Medicaid for full-benefit dual eligible individuals under the state plan. And (3) train providers in the use of such systems and registries. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit to Congress a report on Medicaid transformation payments to states for the adoption of innovative methods to improve effectiveness and efficiency in providing medical assistance.
National Guard Investigations Transparency and Improvement Act of 2014 - Codifies the establishment of the Office of Complex Administrative Investigations in the Office of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau. Requires the Office to undertake complex administrative investigations of matters relating to members of the National Guard when in state status, including investigations of sexual assault, upon the request of: (1) the Chief. (2) an adjutant general of a state, a territory, or the District of Columbia, (3) a governor of a state or territory. Or (4) the Commanding General of the National Guard of the District of Columbia. Defines quot, complex administrative investigationquot. As any investigation specified by the Chief involving factors giving rise to unusual complexity, including: (1) questions of jurisdiction between the United States and a state or territory, (2) matters requiring specialized training among investigating officers, or (3) matters raising the need for an independent investigation to ensure fairness and impartiality. Requires the Chief to treat any final report of the Office relating to such matters as if it were the report of an inspector general of the Department of Defense (DOD) or a military department. Directs the Chief to submit to Members of Congress from the state or territory concerned the final report adopted by the Office regarding such an investigation. Requires the Chief to submit to Congress an annual report regarding all investigations undertaken by the Office during the preceding year.
Department of Veterans Affairs Claims Backlog Reduction Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) identify the current backlog of veterans' claims for benefits through the Department of Veterans Affairs and to categorize those claims. And (2) identify claims that need further development and refer them to a geographically appropriate County Veterans Service Office. Allows veterans' claims to be submitted to County Veterans Service Officers and authorizes the Officers to fully develop such claims. Requires appropriate information sharing between the Department's Benefits Delivery Network and the Offices. Requires funding provided by this Act to be allocated to States based on their respective populations of veterans and allocates such funds to the appropriate Office. Prohibits Federal funding from exceeding 50 percent of the costs of Office operations. Allows funding to be used to establish Officer programs in States that do not have one.
Hygiene Assistance for Families of Infants and Toddlers Act of 2017 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Administration for Children and Familes of the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to states or local governments, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, or nonprofit organizations to conduct demonstration projects to help low-income families address the diapering needs of their children.
Two-Midnight Rule Coordination and Improvement Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop appropriate criteria with regard to the two-midnight rule for payment under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act for a short inpatient hospital stay. Requires the criteria developed by the Secretary to: (1) account for medical necessity and the appropriateness of an inpatient stay that is less than the two-midnight benchmark, and (2) be developed in consultation with interested stakeholders. Directs the Secretary to develop a budget-neutral Medicare payment methodology for hospitals for short inpatient hospital stays. Allows the methodology to be: (1) a reduced payment amount than would otherwise apply to inpatient hospital services if paid for under the Medicare prospective payment schedule, or (2) an alternative payment methodology. Directs the Secretary to develop: (1) general equivalency maps to link the relevant International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD)-10 codes to relevant Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes, and the relevant CPT codes to relevant ICD-10 codes, in order to permit comparison of inpatient hospital services and hospital outpatient department services. And (2) a second crosswalk between Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) codes for inpatient hospital services and Ambulatory Payment Class (APC) codes for outpatient hospital services. Prohibits the Secretary from enforcing the two-midnight rule for admissions occurring: (1) before October 1, 2014. And (2) on or after that date until October 1, 2015, or the new two-midnight rule criteria are implemented, if sooner . Prohibits a Medicare review contractor from denying a claim for inpatient hospital services furnished by a hospital, or inpatient critical access hospital services furnished by a critical access hospital, on the basis of the two-midnight rule for discharges occurring before the applicable date for: (1) medical necessity due to the length of an inpatient stay in such hospital or due to a determination that the services could have been provided on an outpatient basis. Or (2) requirements for orders, certifications, or recertifications, and associated documentation relating to such matters. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to preclude the Secretary from continuing the conduct by Medicare administrative contractors of the Medicare Probe and Educate program for hospital admissions during the delayed enforcement of the two-midnight rule. Prohibits the Secretary from increasing the sample of claims selected for prepayment review under the Medicare Probe and Educate program above the number and type established by the Secretary as of November 4, 2013, such as 10 claims for most hospitals and 25 claims for large hospitals.
International Space Station Independent Safety Commission Act of 2004 - Directs the President to establish, an independent, non-partisan Commission within the executive branch to discover and assess any vulnerabilities of the International Space Station (ISS) that could lead to its destruction, compromise the health of its crew, or necessitate its premature abandonment. Provides for the Commission to consist of 15 members, including the Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board. Prohibits: (1) any Commission member from having or having pending a contractual relationship with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). And (2) the President from appointing any individual as a Commission member who has a current or former relationship with the Administrator of NASA that the President determines would constitute a conflict of interest. Instructs the Commission to undertake the following tasks: (1) catalog threats to and vulnerabilities of the ISS, including sabotage or terrorist attack, (2) make recommendations for corrective actions. And (3) provide any additional findings or recommendations considered by the Commission to be important, whether or not they are related to ISS safety. Sets forth the powers and other authorities of the Commission. Directs the NASA Engineering and Safety Center to provide data and technical support as requested by the Commission. Requires the appropriate Federal agencies or departments to cooperate with the Commission in expeditiously providing appropriate security clearances to the Commission members and staff. Prohibits any person from being provided access to classified information under this Act without the appropriate security clearances. Allows the Commission to submit interim reports containing findings, conclusions, and recommendations for corrective actions to the President and Congress. Terminates the Commission and all the authorities of this Act with respect to the Commission after the Commission's final report containing findings, conclusions, and recommendations for such actions is submitted to the President and Congress and made available to the public. Directs the NASA Administrator to enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences for a review of compliance with the Commission's recommendations and to transmit a report to Congress containing the results of such review.
Higher Education Family Opportunity Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit a deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses in lieu of the Hope and Lifetime Learning credits. Sets the deductible limit at $5,000 for 1999 and increases such limit by $500 annually until it reaches $10,000 for years 2009 and thereafter.
Drive America on Natural Gas Act of 2008 - Amends the Clean Air Act to: (1) redefine renewable fuel to include renewable and nonrenewable natural gas (NG), including compressed natural (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG). And (2) require fuel credit program regulations to provide for generation of credits for renewable and nonrenewable natural gas. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a new qualified alternative fuel motor vehicle credit for dual fueled automobiles. Directs the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), to conduct a program of natural gas vehicle research, development, and demonstration, with a particular emphasis on streamlining the certification of NG conversion systems. Directs the EPA Administrator to: (1) establish a demonstration program to assist states in facilitating the development of alternative-fueled vehicles. And (2) waive requirements for recertification of certain kits for the conversion of vehicles to NG.
Improving Corporate Governance Through Diversity Act of 2017 This bill directs executive agencies to require any covered contractor awarded a contract of $5 million or more to submit, within 60 days: data on the racial, ethnic, and gender composition of such contractor's board of directors and senior executives. Data on the affiliation of any such board member or executive to a historically underrepresented group, including veterans and individuals with disabilities. And any plan or strategy to improve the diversity of such board members or executives. Each agency shall submit quarterly reports on such data to the General Services Administration, which shall report to Congress annually on the diversity of such contractor boards and executives. The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is amended to require each issuer of a registered security to disclose such data, plan, and strategy in its required annual report. The Securities and Exchange Commission must revise corporate governance regulations to require that when the description is presented in a proxy or information statement relating to the election of directors, the nominee's qualities and skills, along with the nominee's gender, race, ethnicity, and affiliation with a historically underrepresented group, are presented in a chart or matrix form.
Grants to the Authority at no cost a right-of-way across all public land and withdrawn land on which the Project is situated and across any Federal lands as reasonably necessary for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and repair of the Project, including existing access routes. Provides that such rights-of-way shall be valid for as long as they are needed for municipal water supply purposes and shall not require payment of rental or other fee. Requires the Secretary, if such conveyance has not occurred within 12 months after the effective date of this Act, to report on its status to Congress.
Highway Runoff Management Act - Requires each state to develop for approval a state highway stormwater management program consisting of management measures to prevent, reduce, or control highway runoff from federal-aid highway projects. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to publish guidance to assist states in the establishment of such measures.
Electronic Commerce Extension Establishment Act of 1999 - Amends the National Bureau of Standards Act to direct the Secretary of Commerce to provide assistance for the creation and support of Regional Centers for the Transfer of Electronic Commerce Technology (Centers). Requires the Centers to be affiliated with any US-based nonprofit institution or organization that applies for and is awarded financial assistance under this Act. Outlines objectives of the Centers, including aiding small businesses, especially those located in rural areas, in identifying and adopting electronic commerce technologies and business practices. Defines electronic commerce as the ability to buy, sell, and deliver goods and services through computer networks. Requires such Centers to: (1) establish electronic commerce demonstration systems for technology transfer. And (2) transfer and disseminate research findings and Center expertise to companies and enterprises, particularly small businesses. Authorizes the Secretary to provide financial support to a Center for such activities and objectives. Outlines application requirements for such assistance. Requires Centers receiving assistance to be evaluated during the third year of operation by a panel of private experts. Requires a positive finding from such panel before a Center may receive such assistance for its fourth through sixth years. Requires independent review of a Center every two years after the sixth year, to be conducted under procedures established by the National Institutes of Standards and Technology. Provides Center funding limitations. Requires the Secretary to publish a proposal for the assistance program provided under this Act, as well as a final program. Authorizes appropriations.
Responsible Education Achieves Care and Healthy Outcomes for Usersrsquo. Treatment Act of 2018 or the REACH OUT Act of 2018 This bill requires the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services to award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to qualifying organizations in order to support efforts to curb outlier prescribers of opioids under the Medicare prescription drug benefit and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans. Additionally, the bill temporarily eliminates the enhanced federal matching rate for Medicaid expenditures regarding specified medical services provided by certain managed care organizations.
Reserve Component Tax Assistance Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow as a business or trade deduction the expenses of a member of the reserve component of the US armed forces in connection with such service. Makes such deduction available to itemizers and non-itemizers. Establishes related reserve component business-related employment and self-employment credits.
Fighting Fraud in Bankruptcy Act of 2011 - Amends federal bankruptcy law to prescribe remedies, including civil penalties, for a negligent, reckless, or fraudulent assertion of claim in a bankruptcy proceeding under either chapter 7 (liquidation) or chapter 13 . Prohibits the court, in any case involving a service member, from granting relief from an automatic stay upon request of a party in interest unless such party certifies under penalty of perjury that the requirements of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act pertaining to mortgages used as security on real or personal property have been met. Amends the federal judicial code to confer upon the US trustee the duty to exercise the trustee's powers and authorities to prevent or remedy any negligent, reckless, or fraudulent assertion of a claim. Requires the Director of the Executive Office for US Trustees to establish specified audit procedures to determine the accuracy, veracity, and completeness of proofs of claim filed under federal bankruptcy laws.
Spending Reduction Act - Requires the head of each executive agency to submit to the President and Congress a report on the implementation of recommendations made by specified Government Accountability Office (GAO) reports on reducing duplication in government programs, achieving savings, and enhancing revenue. Requires: (1) such agency reports to include recommendations by the agency heads for actions that should be taken as a result of such GAO reports. And (2) agency heads to begin implementation of such recommendations in order to eliminate, consolidate, streamline, or better coordinate government programs and agencies with duplicative, overlapping, or fragmented missions identified in the GAO reports, unless Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving them.
Coordinated Recovery Initiative for Babies Act of 2014 or the CRIB Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to study the treatment and surveillance of, and available information concerning, neonatal abstinence syndrome . Requires the Secretary to establish an advisory panel to identify and compile best practices and to disseminate the practices, including through the public HHS website. Requires a review of the best practices at least every two years.
Civil Rights Amendments Act of 2003 - Amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of affectional or sexual orientation with respect to: (1) public accommodations, (2) public facilities, (3) federally assisted programs, (5) equal employment opportunities, (6) housing sales and rentals, and (7) brokerage services.
Justice for Sergei Magnitsky Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of State to publish a list of each individual the Secretary believes: (1) is responsible for the detention, abuse, or death of Sergei Magnitsky. (2) conspired to defraud the Russian Federation of taxes on corporate profits through fraudulent transactions and lawsuits against the foreign investment company known as Hermitage and to misappropriate Hermitage-owned entities. Or (3) participated in efforts to conceal Mr. Magnitsky's detention, abuse, or death, or the existence of such conspiracy. Makes an alien on such list or a family member ineligible to enter or be admitted to the United States. Revokes any visa issued for such person. Authorizes the Secretary to waive such prohibition if in the US national interest. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) instruct domestic financial institutions and agencies to take specified measures if the Secretary makes a money laundering determination relating to such conspiracy. And (2) freeze and prohibit US property transactions of an individual who is on such list or acts as an agent for an individual on the list. Authorizes the Secretary to waive such actions if in the US national interest. States that this Act shall cease to be effective when the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury certify to Congress that: (1) the government of the Russian Federation has conducted a thorough and transparent investigation into Mr. Magnitsky's detention and death, and the related conspiracy: (2) the responsible individuals have been brought to justice according to the Russian Federation's laws and pursuant to its international legal obligations. And (3) the government of the Russian Federation has taken steps to bring its criminal justice and penal systems into compliance with international legal standards, has strengthened statutory protections for individuals who disclose evidence of illegal government activities, and has recognized Sergei Magnitsky's contribution to the fight against corruption and for the rule of law.
Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code to authorize the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), provided certain conditions are met, to allow the sponsor of an underfunded multiemployer benefit plan to accept from an employer a ratified collective bargaining agreement that provides for a reduction in plan employer contributions as well as appropriate reduction in the level of future benefit accruals for plan participants for up to five years during the plan funding adoption period, funding improvement period, rehabilitation adoption period, and rehabilitation period. Conditions such an allowance upon the PBGC's determination that: (1) the contributing employer will be unable to pay its debts when due and to continue business without a reduction in its contribution rates. (2) the contributing employer's aggregate withdrawal liability with respect to all multiemployer pension plans exceeds $750 million. (3) the collectability of the withdrawal liability is very doubtful if the contributing employer were to withdraw from the plan. (4) the reduced contributions are not reasonably expected to have an adverse effect on the PBGC deficit. And (5) other creditors, stakeholders, and parties to which the contributing employer is obligated have accepted comparable reductions.
Accountability in Foster Care Act - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish an Advisory Panel on the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) to revise and monitor the data collection, analysis, and reporting system designed to be used to assess and improve state performance in operating child protection and child welfare programs . Directs the Secretary to publish notice of proposed regulations, based on Advisory Panel recommendations, and final regulations to revise AFCARS. Requires such regulations to: (1) permit longitudinal analysis of child-specific outcomes, including analysis of entry and exit cohort data for children in and emancipated from foster care. (2) permit AFCARS to be integrated with the planned National Youth in Transition Database. And (3) contain any other rules necessary to ensure that the revised AFCARS can perform specified functions.
Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act of 2011 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to extend the exclusivity period for a new prescription drug by five years for a drug that the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) determines to be a qualified infectious disease product. Defines qualified infectious disease product to mean an antibiotic drug for treating, detecting, preventing, or identifying a qualifying pathogen . Excludes drugs that are: (1) a supplement to a new drug application for which an extension is in effect or has expired. Or (2) a subsequent application for a change that results in a new indication, route of administration, dosing schedule, dosage form, delivery system, delivery device or strength, or a modification to the structure of the product that does not result in a change in safety or effectiveness. Extends such period of exclusivity an additional six months for a sponsor or manufacturer of a qualified infectious disease product that identifies a companion diagnostic test. Requires the Secretary to give priority review to any drug determined to be a qualified infectious disease product. Includes qualified infectious disease products as fast track products for which the Secretary shall facilitate development and expedite review. Directs the Comptroller General to study the need for incentives to encourage the research, development, and marketing of qualified infectious disease biological products. Requires the Secretary to: (1) review Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines for clinical trials of antibiotic drugs. And (2) revise such guidelines, as appropriate, to reflect developments in scientific and medical information and technology and to ensure clarity regarding the procedures and requirements for approval of an antibiotic drug.
Occupational Safety and Health Fairness Act of 2003 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA) to revise requirements relating to enforcing, contesting, reviewing, and adjudicating citations, failures to correct violations, and assessments of penalties. Exempts employers from a 15-day deadline for notifying the Secretary of Labor of their intent to contest OSHA citations, notices of uncorrected violations, and proposed penalties, if their failure to meet such deadline results from mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Limits what may be considered willful violations under OSHA. Requires the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC) to give de novo consideration to evidence of the penalty's appropriateness with respect to these factors: (1) size and financial condition of the business of the employer. (2) gravity of the violation, considering probability of harm, nature and extent of the harm, number of affected employees, and other relevant factors, (3) employer's good faith, including efforts to comply or abate. (4) history and recentness of substantially similar previous violations of the cited employer at the same nonconstruction worksite and construction worksites in the same State. And (5) the employer's, employees', or other persons' degree of responsibility or culpability for the violation. Increases OSHRC membership from three to five. Awards attorney's fees and costs to a prevailing employer in an administrative adversary adjudication, or a judicial review of an action, instituted under OSHA, if at the time such adjudication was initiated or such action filed the employer had not more than: (1) 100 employees. And (2) $1,500,000 net worth. Revises judicial review provisions to require deference to be given to reasonable OSHRC conclusions with respect to all questions of law.
Safety and Fuel Economy (SAFE) Act - Amends Federal transportation law to direct the Secretary of Transportation to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to prescribe a new Federal motor vehicle safety standard to improve the crash safety of automobiles and light trucks in collisions. Directs the Secretary to issue regulations that require motor vehicle manufacturers to disclose CRAGG index ratings to purchasers of new motor vehicles after model year 2005. Establishes the CRAGG index as one that: (1) measures a motor vehicle's aggressivity, (2) takes into account its stiffness, structure height, and mass. And (3) substantially improves the present crash safety of automobiles and light trucks by reducing their aggressivity. Defines aggressivity as the degree to which the front of a motor vehicle in a collision with another motor vehicle inflicts damage to the other vehicle and causes injury to its occupants. Sets forth average fuel economy standards for passenger automobiles and light trucks manufactured after model years 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009, and 2011.
Securing Opioids and Unused Narcotics with Deliberate Disposal and Packaging Act of 2018 or the SOUND Disposal and Packaging Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to authorize the Food and Drug Administration to require certain packaging and disposal technologies, controls, or measures to mitigate the risk of abuse or misuse of a drug or a class of drugs.
Unfunded Mandates Accountability Act of 2011 - Amends the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 to: (1) require regulatory impact analyses for rules that do not involve a legislative mandate and for final rules that do not have a prior notice of proposed rulemaking. (2) require federal agencies to prepare and publish in the Federal Register an initial and final regulatory impact analysis prior to promulgating any proposed or final rule that may have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or that may result in the expenditure of $100 million or more in any one year by state, local, and tribal governments. (3) require such agencies to identify and consider regulatory alternatives before promulgating any proposed or final rule and select the least costly, most cost-effective, or least burdensome alternative. (4) define cost as the cost of compliance and any reasonably foreseeable indirect cost resulting from agency rulemaking. (5) exempt rules concerning monetary policy proposed or implemented by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the Federal Open Market Committee from provisions of such Act relating to regulatory accountability and reform, review of federal mandates, and judicial review. And (6) expand provisions relating to judicial review of regulatory impact analyses. Amends the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to require independent regulatory agencies to conduct regulatory impact analyses.
Home Energy Savings Incentives Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise the tax credit for nonbusiness energy property enacted by the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to allow an individual taxpayer a credit equal to $10 for each therm of certified natural gas savings and $0.65 for each kilowatt hour of certified electricity savings attributable to energy efficiency improvements made to the taxpayer's principal residence. Limits the amount of such credit to $5,000, less credits received for all prior taxable years. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe the manner and method for making energy savings certifications for purposes of the tax credit. Terminates the credit after December 31, 2007.
Michelle's Law - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to prohibit a group health plan or health insurance coverage offered in connection with such a plan from terminating the coverage of a dependent child due to a medically necessary leave of absence from a postsecondary educational institution that causes the child to lose full-time status before the date that is the earlier of: (1) one year after the first day of the leave of absence. Or (2) the date on which such coverage would otherwise terminate under the terms of the plan. Requires documentation and a certification by a physician.
Healthy Schools Partnerships Act of 2010 - Amends the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a demonstration project awarding grants to school food authorities that collaborate with academic experts, nonprofit organizations, registered dietitians or other nutrition professionals, community partners, and local schools to test and evaluate innovative models to improve nutrition education, student decisionmaking, and healthy school environments. Gives grant priority to school food authorities that demonstrate: (1) a severe need to improve the school environment. (2) a commitment by community partners to make in-kind or cash contributions, and (3) the ability to measure results.
Safe and Timely Interstate Placement of Foster Children Act of 2006 - Amends the Social Security Act to require each state plan for foster care and adoption assistance to provide that the state shall: (1) have in effect procedures for orderly and timely interstate placement of children. (2) complete home studies requested by another state within a specified period, (3) accept such studies received from another state. And (4) not impose any restrictions on contracting with a private agency to conduct such a study. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make grants for timely interstate home study incentive payments to states that have approved plans and that have completed, and provided the Secretary a report on, such studies. Expresses the sense of Congress that state agencies should cooperate with courts which have authority with respect to the placement of a child in foster care or for adoption for the purpose of locating a parent of the child. Amends the definition of case review system to: (1) increase the required frequency of state caseworker visits to a child who is placed in foster care outside the state in which the child's parents reside. (2) require a child's health and education record to be supplied to the child at no cost when heshe leaves foster care by reason of having attained the age of majority under state law. And (3) provide for a foster parent's right to be heard in any proceeding respecting their foster child. Requires state courts to ensure that foster parents, pre-adoptive parents, and relative caregivers of a child in foster care are notified of any such proceedings. Includes among the purposes of grants to the highest state courts the assessment of the court's role in carrying out state laws requiring proceedings that determine the best strategy to use to expedite the interstate placement of children. Provides for consideration of out-of-state placements in permanency hearings, case plans, and case reviews. Requires each plan for child welfare services to include the assurance that the state will eliminate legal barriers to facilitate timely adoptive or permanent placements for children.
Cure for AIDS Act of 2012 - Directs the Secretary of Defense (DOD), through the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program, to establish and support an accelerated research program dedicated to discovering a cure for HIVAIDS. Instructs the Secretary to collaborate with the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and other appropriate federal agencies. Requires the Secretary to: (1) ensure that such research is highly targeted, (2) coordinate with at least one eligible nonprofit entity, and (3) ensure that the responsibilities of the non-profit entity include partnering with the Secretary in establishing research priorities.
This bill amends the federal criminal code to revise provisions related to the interstate transportation of firearms and ammunition. An individual may transport a firearm between two places where it is legal to possess, carry, or transport the firearm. During transport, the firearm must be unloaded and secured or securely stored. Additionally, an individual may transport ammunition, or a detachable magazine or feeding device, between two places where it is legal to possess, carry, or transport the ammunition, magazine, or feeding device. During transport, the ammunition, magazine, or feeding device must not be loaded into a firearm and must be securely stored. This bill prohibits the arrest or detention of an individual for a state or local firearm or ammunition violation unless there is probable cause to believe the individual failed to comply with the provisions of this bill.
Territorial Economic Growth and Recovery Act of 2016 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the limitation on the amount of distilled spirits excise taxes covered over to the treasuries of the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. If Puerto Rico or the Northern Mariana Islands has a tax system that mirrors federal tax law , the Department of the Treasury must pay each possession amounts equal to the loss to the possession due to the application of the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC). If the possession does not have a mirror code tax system, Treasury must pay to the possession an amount equal to the aggregate benefits that would have been provided to residents of the possession by applying the EITC if a mirror code tax system had been in effect. Treasury must pay to the Virgin Islands and Guam amounts equal to the aggregate loss to the Virgin Islands or Guam due to the Child Tax Credit. The Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries must submit to Treasury's Office of Domestic Finance recommendations for actions that would be necessary to ensure that the public pension plans of the Virgin Islands can be sustainably maintained and funded by the government of the Virgin Islands for the next 20 years.
Judicial Administration and Technical Amendments Act of 2008 - Amends the federal judicial code to: (1) move Dyer County from the Western Division to the Eastern Division of the Western Judicial District of Tennessee. And (2) make Dyersburg a site where the Court for the Eastern Division shall be held. Reduces from 30 days to 10 days the minimum length of time a petit juror must serve on a trial before the court may pay a supplemental attendance fee. Changes from a requirement to discretionary the authority of the district court to order any person summoned for jury service who fails to appear as directed to appear forthwith and show cause for failure to comply with the summons. Requires the clerk or jury commission to post a general notice for public review in the clerk's office and on the court's website explaining the process by which names are periodically and randomly drawn from the master jury wheel. Revises the items for which a judge or clerk of any court of the United States may tax as costs to specify: (1) printed or electronically recorded transcripts. And (2) copies of any materials where the copies are necessarily obtained for use in the case. Repeals obsolete provisions in the bankruptcy code relating to certain dollar amounts. Authorizes the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, or a designated clerk of court, to request the Secretary of the Treasury to invest court registry funds in interest-bearing public debt securities. Authorizes magistrate judge participation at circuit conferences. Amends the federal criminal code to repeal the requirement that a chief pretrial services officer be selected by a panel consisting of the chief judge of the circuit, the chief judge of the district, and a magistrate judge of the district or their designees. Requires, instead, that the chief pretrial services officer be appointed by the district court. Requires indexing, according to a specified formula, of the maximum amount of compensation payable to attorneys for representing defendants. Expands delegation authority for reviewing and approving Criminal Justice Act vouchers in excess of case compensation maximums for: (1) representation of defendants, (2) services other than counsel. Or (3) service as counsel for financially unable defendants. Authorizes the chief judge of the circuit to delegate such approval authority to a senior circuit judge . Repeals obsolete cross-references to the Narcotic Addict Rehabilitation Act in speedy trial requirements. Makes technical and conforming amendments to the federal criminal code with respect to conditions of probation and supervised release after imprisonment. Includes among pretrial services functions contracting with any appropriate public or private agency or person, or expending funds, to monitor and provide treatment as well as nontreatment services to any such persons released in the community, including equipment and emergency housing, corrective and preventative guidance and training, and other services reasonably deemed necessary to protect the public and ensure that such persons appear in court as required. Amends the federal judicial code to require at least Increases from $100 to $1,000 the monetary penalty for failure to appear for a jury summons. Authorizes the court to order community service as a penalty as well. Requires court for the Sixth Division of the Minnesota Judicial District to be held at Bemidji . Increases from $1,000 to $5,000 the monetary penalty for employers who retaliate against employees serving on jury duty. Authorizes the court to order community service as a penalty as well.
Restore Opportunity, Strengthen, and Improve the Economy Act - Prohibits an executive agency from awarding a contract for the acquisition of supplies or services to a source that is not a Good Jobs Model Employer, unless there is no offer from such an employer. Defines a quot, Good Jobs Model Employerquot. As one that: respects employees' rights to bargain collectively with their employers without being forced to take strike action to win better wages and working conditions. Offers to each employee living wages, decent benefits including health care, paid leave for sickness and caregiving, and fair work schedules that are predictable and stable. Affirmatively demonstrates an exemplary standard of compliance with workplace protection laws, including laws governing labor relations, wages and hours, and health and safety, as well as other applicable labor laws. Limits executive compensation to 50 times the median salary paid to the company's workers. Employs a workforce not less than 35 of which reside within one or more Historically Underutilized Business Zones. And subcontracts only with other Good Jobs Model Employers. Prohibits an executive agency from providing other forms of assistance to entities that are not model employers when there is a similarly situated Good Jobs Model Employer that could receive the assistance, unless doing so would substantially undermine the value of the assistance to the public good. Requires executive agencies to incorporate into each new contract or assistance agreement a clause requiring the contractor or recipient to conduct itself as a Good Jobs Model Employer for the duration of the contract. Provides for the suspension of a contractor or assistance recipient that fails to do so and for debarment for multiple violations. Requires: (1) the Secretary of Labor to promulgate regulations implementing such Good Jobs Model Employer standards, and (2) specified officials to amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to effect the policy and purposes of this Act.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for accelerated depreciation of certain energy-efficient heating, ventilation, air conditioning, or commercial refrigeration property installed in nonresidential real property or residential rental property and placed in service before January 1, 2013.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a business-related tax credit for: (1) the production of renewable energy from qualified energy feedstock using a technology verified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). And (2) the sale or use of such energy. Defines qualified energy feedstock to include manure of livestock, any nonhazardous, organic agricultural or food industry byproduct or waste material derived from renewable biomass, solid wood waste materials, or agricultural or forestry crops. Allows such credit to offset alternative minimum tax (AMT) liability.
Smoke Free Mothers and Babies Act of 2006 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to require coverage, without cost-sharing, of counseling and pharmacotherapy for cessation of tobacco use by pregnant women. Provides for an increased federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) for tobacco cessation counseling services and medications.
Debbie Smith Act - Authorizes the Attorney General to make grants to eligible States to carry out sexual assault nurse examiner programs and to train law enforcement personnel and first responders in the handling of sexual assault cases and the collection and use of DNA samples for forensic evidence. Provides that for a State to be eligible to receive a grant, the chief executive officer of the State shall submit to the Attorney General an application which shall include a certification that the State shall comply with specified quality assurance standards. Sets forth provisions regarding restrictions on the use of funds and expenditure records. Amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to require the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to issue standards for collecting and processing, for use as forensic evidence, samples on which DNA analysis may be carried out. Authorizes the Attorney General to make grants to eligible States to carry out DNA analyses of samples from crime scenes for inclusion in the FBI's Combined DNA Index System. Sets forth provisions regarding State eligibility, restrictions on uses of funds, and expenditure records.
Consumer Protection and Choice Act This bill amends the Truth in Lending Act to prohibit a deferred presentment transaction except as provided under this Act. A deferred presentment transaction is one in which currency or other payment is provided to a consumer in exchange for a consumer's check or other payment instrument and an agreement that such check or payment instrument shall be held for a deferment period prior to presentment, deposit, or redemption. If the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) determines that a state has in effect a law that provides for the licensing of deferred presentment providers and the regulation of deferred presentment transactions, and that meets the requirements specified by this Act, any CFPB regulations concerning such transactions and providers shall not apply in such state. Such a state law must: require a provider to be licensed by the state, establish a transaction database. Require a provider to verify through such database that a consumer entering into such a transaction does not have an outstanding transaction. Require a provider to report immediately to such database information about each transaction entered into and each transaction paid or settled. Require that a transaction agreement be in writing and allow the consumer to rescind the agreement within the first 24 hours. Require a transaction agreement to limit the interest and fees to no more that 10 of the transaction amount, the processing fee to $5, the transaction amount to $500, and the duration of the transaction to no less than 7 days and no more than 31 days. And allow a 60-day grace period after the contractual repayment date for a consumer to repay the amount due, subject to early termination if a consumer fails to complete a course with a consumer credit counseling agency. The bill makes these changes effective 24 months after enactment and prohibits the CFPB from establishing or enforcing any regulation governing deferred presentment transactions or payday loans during such period.
Modernizing Outdated and Vulnerable Equipment and Information Technology Act of 2016 or MOVE IT Act This bill prohibits a covered agency from storing or processing government information on a federal information system with any cloud service provider unless the provider has an authorization to operate a cloud computing service from the agency or the Joint Authorization Board. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) may waive the applicability of such prohibition to any national security system in the interest of national security and shall submit a statement justifying such waiver. The ODNI shall: (1) coordinate with the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program Office (FRAMPO) to establish mandatory guidelines for the submission of an application for such an authorization that shall streamline and accelerate the accreditation process. (2) host a public-private industry cloud commercial working group representing cloud service providers, which shall provide recommendations directly to FRAMPO's Program Management Office and Joint Authorization Board regarding their operations, processes improvements, and best practices, (3) establish key performance metrics for FRAMPO, (4) report on the effectiveness and efficiency of FRAMPO. And (5) assess cloud computing opportunities and issue policies and guidelines for the adoption of government-wide programs providing for a standardized approach to security assessment and operational authorization for cloud computing products and services. There is established in each such agency an information technology system modernization and working capital fund for necessary expenses: for the replacement of a legacy information technology system. For the transition to cloud computing and innovative platforms and technologies. To assist and support efforts to provide information technology capabilities that address evolving threats to information security. And for developmental, modernization, and enhancement activities of information technology. Each agency shall prioritize amounts within such fund to be used initially for cost savings activities approved by the Federal Chief Information Officer. The Government Accountability Office shall report on the implementation and operation of each such fund, current practices compared with industry best practices for the effective oversight and governance of a cloud computing working capital fund, the basis for the fund's use and operation, the fund's efficacy to accelerate technology transitions, and recommendations for improvement.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to carry out a Thurgood Marshall Legal Educational Opportunity Program to provide low-income, minority, or disadvantaged college students with information, preparation, and financial assistance to gain access to and complete law school study. Authorizes the Secretary to contract with, or make a grant to, the Council on Legal Education Opportunity, for at least a five-year period, to deliver specified services under such program, directly and through subgrants and subcontracts. Directs the Secretary to establish annually the maximum stipend to be paid to Thurgood Marshall Fellows for the period of prelaw preparation in summer institutes and midyear seminar prior to and during the period of law school study. Sets forth the maximum amount of grants for such program services for any fiscal year.
Federal Employees Health Benefits Provider Integrity Amendments of 1997 - Amends Federal law, with respect to Federal employees' health insurance coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHB), to revise provisions regarding the debarment of any health care provider found to have engaged in fraudulent practices, including requiring debarment for certain fraudulent practices. Amends the Social Security Act, as amended by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, to apply certain criminal health antifraud and abuse sanctions to fraud and abuse involving the FEHB Program.
Higher Education Affordability and Availability Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from income distributions from qualified tuition programs used for qualifying higher education expenses. Includes within the definition of qualified State tuition program programs maintained by eligible educational institutions. Requires such non-State programs to limit annual contributions on behalf of a designated beneficiary to $5,000. Sets forth related excess contribution provisions.
Trade Promotion Authority Extension and Enhancement Act of 2007 - Amends the Bipartisan Trade Promotion Authority Act of 2002 to extend the President's authority until July 1, 2011 to enter into trade agreements with foreign countries whose tariff and nontariff policies unduly burden or restrict US trade or adversely affects the US economy. Extends trade authorities procedures to bills implementing trade agreements entered into during the five-year period beginning on July 1, 2011, and during each five-year period thereafter, unless Congress disapproves after April 1, and before July 1, of the year in which any such five-year period begins.
Neighborhood Security Act of 2003 - Authorizes the Attorney General, through the Office of Justice Programs, to award grants to nonprofit organizations and professional associations to develop and improve Neighborhood Watches throughout the Nation. Requires grants to be used to: (1) complete a survey that identifies Neighborhood Watches by ZIP code, (2) establish a national registry of Neighborhood Watch leaders. (3) identify best practices and model programs among Neighborhood Watches for preventing and responding to terrorism and crime. (4) create a manual for communities seeking to establish or improve a Neighborhood Watch. (5) engage in outreach and respond to inquiries to disseminate information about the benefits of effective Neighborhood Watches and the means to establish or improve them, and (6) provide a Neighborhood Watch start-up kit upon request.
School Desegregation Litigation Reform Act of 1996 - Amends the Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1974 with respect to remedies in school cases. Sets forth requirements for relief in such cases. Revises prohibitions against State denial of equal educational opportunity. Allows school districts and State and local governments to institute civil actions on behalf of individuals denied equal educational opportunity. Authorizes the Attorney General to intervene in such civil actions.
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Enhancement Act This bill amends the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to require the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to establish: (1) a Small Business Advisory Board to advise and consult with the CFPB in the exercise of its functions under the federal consumer financial laws regarding financial products or services provided for use by consumers primarily for personal, family, or household purposes and to provide information on emerging practices of small businesses that provide such products or services. And (2) a Credit Union Advisory Council and a Community Bank Advisory Council to advise and consult with the CFPB on consumer financial products or services that impact credit unions and community banks, respectively.
Improving Food-borne Illness Surveillance and Response Act of 2008 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to strengthen and expand foodborne illness surveillance systems to: (1) inform and evaluate efforts to prevent foodborne illness. And (2) enhance the identification and investigation of, and response to, foodborne illness outbreaks. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to enhance foodborne illness surveillance systems to improve the collection, analysis, reporting, and usefulness of data on foodborne illnesses. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, to improve capacity for surveillance in states, including by: (1) supporting outbreak investigations with needed specialty expertise, (2) supporting model practices in states. And (3) developing training curricula on foodborne illness surveillance investigations. Directs the Secretary to: (1) carry out activities to support core food safety functions of state and local public health laboratories. And (2) establish a working group to advise the Secretary regarding the improvement of foodborne illness surveillance and implementation of this Act. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary to: (1) leverage and enhance the food safety capacity and roles of state and local agencies, (2) survey state and local capacities and enhancement needs. (3) develop a plan addressing food safety functions at state and local levels. And (4) make grants to state and local agencies to enhance food safety capacity and programs.
Directs the Attorney General to implement a program to identify aliens held in local incarceration facilities prior to criminal arraignment who are illegally in the United States or who are deportable on criminal or security grounds. Requires that at least one Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) employee with identification expertise be assigned to each program facility. Directs the Attorney General to select facilities for participation that: (1) are owned by requesting local political subdivisions. (2) are located in counties or subdivisions with high concentrations of illegal or deportable aliens. And (3) incarcerate persons prior to criminal arraignment. States that all local facilities within Orange and Ventura Counties, California, that incarcerate prior to arraignment shall be selected for program participation. Sets forth required numbers of qualifying subdivisions, beginning with FY 1999. Directs the Attorney General to report respecting future program enlargement through: (1) computer or other electronic means of off-site status verification, and (2) multiple facility assignment of INS personnel.
Nurturing and Supporting Healthy Babies Act or the NAS Healthy Babies Act This bill requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report on neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), which results from a newborn's exposure to addictive opiate drugs while in the mother's womb. Specifically, the GAO shall report on: the prevalence of NAS, NAS treatment services for which coverage is available under state Medicaid programs, the settings and associated reimbursement methodologies for NAS treatment, the prevalence of utilization of various care settings under state Medicaid programs for NAS treatment, any federal barriers to treating infants with NAS under state Medicaid programs, and best practices for treating infants with NAS. The GAO shall also report on its recommendations for improvements that will ensure access to NAS treatment under state Medicaid programs. The bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to exclude abuse-deterrent formulations of prescription drugs from the requirement that manufacturers of single-source or innovator drugs pay additional rebates to state Medicaid programs. Under current law, the Centers for Medicare amp, Medicaid Services (CMS)nbsp. Must use predictive modeling and other analytic technologies to identify improper Medicaid claims. The bill prohibits a state agency from using or disclosing such technologies except for purposes of administering a state Medicaid program or Children's Health Insurance Program. A state agency shall have in effect adequate data security and control policies to ensure that access to such information is restricted to authorized persons for authorized uses. The bill places $5 million in the Medicaid Improvement Fund to be available beginning in FY2021.
National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act of 2015 This bill amends the National Sea Grant College Program Act to reauthorize through FY2021 the National Sea Grant College Program. The bill requires the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to award Dean John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowships. Currently, NOAA may give fellowships. Those fellowships support graduate students in fields related to ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes resources in positions with the executive and legislative branches. NOAA must give priority placement of those fellows placed in the legislative branch in: (1) offices or committees of Congress that have jurisdiction over NOAA. And (2) offices of Members of Congress that have a demonstrated interest in ocean, coastal, or Great Lakes resources. NOAA must attempt to ensure that placements are equitably distributed among political parties. NOAA must establish priorities for the use of donations given for the National Sea Grant College Program. The bill authorizes through FY2020 grants for university research on: (1) the biology, prevention, and control of aquatic nonnative species, (2) oyster diseases, oyster restoration, and oyster-related human health risks, (3) the biology, prevention, and forecasting of harmful algal blooms. And (4) sustainable aquaculture techniques and technologies. The bill also authorizes through FY2020 grants for: (1) fishery extension activities conducted by sea grant colleges or sea grant institutes to enhance existing core program funding, and (2) priority issues identified in the National Sea Grant College Program's strategic plan.
Housing Authority Funding Fairness Act of 2007 - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to: (1) repeal tenant-based contract renewals by application of an inflation factor. And (2) authorize FY2008-FY2012 appropriations for tenant-based rental assistance (vouchers). Prescribes requirements for renewal funding for each public housing agency.
Health Care Assurance for Retired Employees Act of 1996 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, to require advance notice to participants and the Secretary of Labor of material reductions in group health plan covered services. Prohibits any such change from taking effect until the Secretary determines that it does not violate the plan, including collective bargaining agreements. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require qualified pension plans to provide qualifying persons 55 years of age or older a coverage continuation option until they are eligible for Medicare. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide retired workers who lose their retiree health benefits with specified Medicare enrollment and coverage protections.
Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to enter into agreements to arrange for the use of other sites appropriate for carrying out hazardous substances research, testing, evaluation, development, and demonstration projects.
Equal Access to Medicare Options Act of 2009 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide all Medicare beneficiaries, regardless of whether they have enrolled in Medicare part B, as well as Medicare Advantage and Medicaid enrollees with the right to guaranteed issue of a supplemental insurance (Medigap) policy. Amends part C (MedicareChoice) of SSA title XVIII to permit enrollment of individuals with end stage renal disease (ESRD) in Medicare Advantage.
Home Health Documentation and Program Improvement Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to: develop a single form or document to be used by a physician to satisfy the documentation requirements necessary to fulfill the requirement of a face-to-face encounter and other criteria for home health eligibility. And notify and provide guidance and education to Medicare administrative contractors, recovery audit contractors, and any other appropriate entity regarding application of the form or document to such documentation requirements. HHS shall also: develop and implement processes to open and review claims denied on or after January 1, 2011, and before enactment of this Act, due solely to the face-to-face documentation requirements. Issue revised decisions of such denials as if the requirements of related regulations did not apply at the time such services were furnished. And establish a voluntary process for home health agencies to enter into a settlement agreement with HHS in lieu of reprocessing claims whose payment this bill now requires.
Indian Employment and Training Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends the Indian Employment, Training and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992 to, among other things: (1) allow Indian tribal governments to use a specified percentage of the funds made available under the Act for the creation of employment opportunities, including providing private sector training placement. (2) transfer lead agency responsibility for demonstration projects from the Bureau of Indian Affairs to the Office of Self-Governance of the Department of the Interior. And (3) revise the requirement regarding the assignment of Federal personnel to State Indian economic development programs to provide for Federal personnel assignments to Indian tribes with such programs. Sets forth requirements concerning: (1) Indian tribal government consolidated advisory committees, and (2) Alaska regional consortia.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on December 11, 2013. Gabriella Miller Kids First Research Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to terminate the entitlement of any major or minor political party to a payment from the Presidential Election Campaign Fund for a presidential nominating convention. Transfers amounts in each account maintained for such purpose for the national committee of a party to a 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund, making them available only for allocation to national research institutes and national centers through the Common Fund for making grants for pediatric research under this Act. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), through the Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives, to allocate funds appropriated under this Act to the national research institutes and national centers for making grants for pediatric research representing important areas of emerging scientific opportunities, rising public health challenges, or knowledge gaps that deserve special emphasis and would benefit from conducting or supporting additional research that involves collaboration between two or more national research institutes or national centers, or would otherwise benefit from strategic coordination and planning. Authorizes $12.6 million out of the 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund for each of FY2014-FY2023 for pediatric research through the Common Fund. Requires such funds to supplement, not supplant, funds otherwise allocated by NIH for pediatric research. Prohibits the use of such amounts for any purpose other than allocating funds for making grants for pediatric research described in this Act.
Department of Defense Anthrax Vaccination Moratorium Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) a single protection measure such as the mandatory anthrax vaccine immunization program should not be implemented by the Department of Defense (DOD) without regard to its effect on morale, retention, recruiting, and budget. And (2) an insufficiently proven vaccine should not be advocated as a substitute for research, development, and production of truly effective vaccines and antibiotics, adequate protective equipment, and nonproliferation measures. Directs the Secretary of Defense to suspend implementation of the DOD anthrax vaccination program. Requires: (1) an independent study of the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine used. And (2) a report from the Director of the National Institutes of Health to specified congressional committees on study results. Directs the Comptroller General to conduct a study and comment to Congress on the vaccine program and the effect of the use of contractor-operated facilities for such program. Requires expedited consideration by the respective Boards for Correction of Military Records for current or former military personnel for remedies for adverse personnel actions that were the result of the vaccine program. States that if the Director determines that the vaccine used in the DOD program meets specified criteria, the Secretary may resume such program. Provides that if such program is resumed, the Secretary may use only newly produced vaccine for vaccinations after such resumption.
Upper Mississippi Conservation and River Protection Act of 2013 or the Upper Mississippi CARP Act - Directs the Chief of Engineers to study the feasibility of: (1) temporarily closing the lock at the Upper St. Anthony Falls Lock and Dam to manage the threat of Asian carp traveling up the Mississippi River in Minnesota, and (2) implementing control measures at such lock and Lock and Dam 1 , including permanently closing the locks, modifying lock operations, or using an alternative technology barrier, to manage such threat. Requires the Chief to assess the potential impacts, including environmental and economic impacts: (1) of temporary closure of such lock and of continuing to operate it, and (2) of implementing each of such control measures and of not implementing such measures. Authorizes the Chief to close such lock upon determining that closure is justified based on the assessment of potential impacts. Requires the Chief to close such lock upon determining that a live adult Asian carp has been captured above Lock and Dam 2 or that a juvenile Asian carp has been captured above Lock and Dam 4 . Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, upon determining that an Asian carp has been captured at such a location, to transmit to the Chief a petition for closure of such lock. Allows the Chief to reopen the lock upon determining that adequate measures are in place to manage the threat. Directs the Council on Environmental Quality to incorporate the Upper Mississippi River and tributaries, the Minnesota River, and the St. Croix River into the Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework of the Council. Expresses the sense of Congress that federal agencies researching Asian carp control technologies should partner with state and local shareholders, giving priority to collaborative partnerships in which such shareholders contribute to the cost of the research.
Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure that the Women Veterans Bill of Rights is printed on signs in accessible formats and displayed prominently in each VA facility and distributed widely to such veterans. Enumerates health care rights to be included in the Bill of Rights, including the right to: (1) coordinated, comprehensive, primary women's health care at every VA medical facility. (2) treatment by clinicians with specific training and experience in women's health issues. And (3) gender equity in access to and the provision of clinical health care services. Directs the Secretary to ensure that the Injured and Amputee Veterans Bill of Rights is printed on signs in accessible formats and displayed prominently in each VA prosthetics and orthotics clinic. Enumerates rights to be included in such Bill of Rights, including the right to: (1) access the highest quality prosthetic and orthotic care. (2) select the practitioner that best meets their prosthetic and orthotic needs. And (3) timely and efficient prosthetic and orthotic care. Requires the Secretary to collect information relating to alleged mistreatment of injured and amputee veterans. Directs the Secretary to: (1) ensure that all VA employees receive training on the Women Veterans Bill of Rights, and that appropriate VA employees receive training on the Injured and Amputee Veterans Bill of Rights. And (2) conduct outreach to inform veterans about both Bills of Rights, and to make them available on the VA Internet website.
Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 - Declares it is US policy to support the people of Zimbabwe in their struggles to effect peaceful, democratic change, achieve broad-based and equitable economic growth, and restore the rule of law. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to review, and expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary should instruct US executive directors to multilateral development banks and international financial institutions to propose review of, the cancellation or reduction of indebtedness owed by, or the extension of loans, credit, or guarantees to, the Government of Zimbabwe upon the President's certification to the appropriate congressional committees that: (1) the rule of law has been restored in Zimbabwe, (2) certain election or pre-election conditions have been met. (3) the Government of Zimbabwe has demonstrated a commitment to an equitable, legal, and transparent land reform program that is consistent with agreements reached at the International Donors' Conference on Land Reform and Resettlement in Zimbabwe held in Harare, Zimbabwe, in September 1998. (4) such Government is making a good faith effort to fulfill the terms of the Lusaka, Zambia, agreement in ending the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo. And (5) the Zimbabwean Armed Forces, the National Police of Zimbabwe, and other state security forces have become subordinate to the elected civilian Government. Directs the Secretary to instruct such US executive directors to oppose such assistance to Zimbabwe until such certification is made. Authorizes the President to waive such requirements if it is in the national interest of the United States. Authorizes the President to provide certain foreign assistance funds to Zimbabwe to support the establishment of democratic institutions, free press and independent media, and the rule of law. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2002. Urges the President to consult immediately with the governments of European Union member states, Canada, and other appropriate foreign countries on identifying and imposing travel and economic sanctions against individuals responsible for the breakdown of the rule of law, politically motivated violence, and intimidation in Zimbabwe.
Innovation Protection Act - Establishes in the Treasury the United States Patent and Trademark Office Public Enterprise Fund to be used as a revolving fund by the Director of the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) without fiscal year limitation. Requires to be credited to or deposited in the Public Enterprise Fund: (1) appropriations for defraying the costs of USPTO activities, (2) fees collected under federal patent and trademark laws. And (3) any unobligated balances remaining in the Patent and Trademark Office Appropriation Account and in the Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund. Requires fees collected by the Director to remain available to the Director until expended. Makes the Public Enterprise Fund available to cover: (1) ordinary and reasonable administrative, operating, and other expenses incurred by the Director for the continued operation of USPTO services, programs, activities, and duties relating to patents and trademarks. And (2) expenses incurred pursuant to obligations, representations, or other commitments of the USPTO. Requires the Director, on an annual basis, to: (1) report to Congress with operation and spending plans, including financial details and staff levels broken down by each major activity, (2) provide for an independent audit of USPTO financial statements, and (3) submit a budget to the President.
Hire Now Tax Cut Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exempt for-profit and nonprofit employers from social security taxes in 2010 for new employees who are hired after February 3, 2010, and before January 1, 2011, and who certify that they have not worked more than 40 hours during the last 60 days. And (2) allow an increase in the general business tax credit for the retention of such employees for at least one year at specified wage levels. Appropriates to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund under title II of the Social Security Act amounts necessary to cover any reduction in revenues resulting from the tax exemptions provided by this Act.
Breast Cancer and Environmental Research Act of 2001 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to make grants to public or nonprofit private entities for the development and operation of not more than eight consortium centers for the conduct of multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional research on environmental factors that may be related to the etiology of breast cancer.
Bounty Hunter Accountability and Quality Assistance Act of 1998 - Directs the Attorney General to develop model guidelines for the State control and regulation of bounty hunters, including recommendations regarding whether: (1) a person seeking employment as a bounty hunter should be required to submit to a fingerprint-based criminal background or should not be allowed to obtain such employment if he or she has been convicted of a Federal or State felony. (2) bounty hunters and their employers should be required to obtain adequate liability insurance for actions taken in the course of performing such duties. And (3) State laws should provide for the official recognition of bounty hunters from other States and should prohibit bounty hunters from entering any private dwelling without first knocking on the front door and announcing their presence. Requires published guidelines to include an analysis of their estimated effect on: (1) the cost and availability of bail. And (2) the bail bond agent industry. Directs the Attorney to publish model guidelines in the Federal Register.
Medicare Incentive Access Act of 2002 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) part B to establish a three-year demonstration project under which the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall: (1) select one or more Federal rural health research centers within the Health Resources Services Administration to develop a methodology for designating Medicare health professional shortage areas. (2) select five States as demonstration sites and designate Medicare health professional shortage areas in them. And (3) provide incentive payments to primary care physicians to service those shortage areas.
Healthy Kids from Day One Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award three-year competitive grants to five eligible entities to help reduce and prevent obesity among children from birth to age five in a state and to encourage parental engagement in child care settings outside a child's place of residence. Identifies as eligible entities: (1) a state health department or other appropriate child care licensing entities within the state, or (2) a nonprofit organization or a partnership of nonprofit organizations with expertise in the healthy development of children. Requires grant funds to be used to: (1) establish child care collaboratives. (2) provide funding to entities that routinely train child care providers to establish collaboratives. And (3) provide technical assistance to participating providers, a compilation of best practices, strategies, and lessons learned from the collaborative, and a plan to ensure that the collaborative will be sustainable, without additional federal funding, upon the conclusion of the grants. Requires each collaborative to: (1) share best practices, strategies, and techniques for successfully implementing policies and practices relating to healthy eating, physical activity, parental engagement, and other topics relating to the healthy development of children. And (2) incorporate between 5 and 10 day-long, interactive training sessions each year and ongoing technical assistance to participating child care providers. Directs the Secretary to: (1) award grants to Prevention Research Centers, universities, or other appropriate entities to evaluate programs carried out under such grants. (2) coordinate activities conducted under this Act with activities undertaken by the National Prevention, Health Promotion, and Public Health Council. And (3) disseminate to all appropriate HHS agencies evidence, strategies, best practices, and lessons learned from grantees.
Tax Relief for Victims of Disasters Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend disaster-related tax provisions relating to the child tax credit and the earned income tax credit, losses, and the individual tax exemption to a qualified federally declared disaster individual .
White House Inspector General Act of 1996 - Amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to: (1) establish an Office of Inspector General (IG) in the Executive Office of the President. (2) require the IG to serve under the President's authority, direction, and control with respect to matters concerning ongoing criminal investigations, policy making, and national security. And (3) require the IG to comply with the same semiannual reporting requirements that all other IGs are subject to and, at a minimum, supply additional specified information as well.
E-Mail User Protection Act of 1998 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit any person from: (1) intentionally soliciting the transmission of unsolicited commercial e-mail from an unregistered or fictitious Internet domain or e-mail address in order to prevent reply through standard reply mechanisms. (2) intentionally using or distributing a computer program or other mechanism or procedure to disguise the source of unsolicited commercial e-mail. (3) intentionally distributing a collection or list of e-mail addresses knowing that persons on such list have previously requested removal from the list. (4) intentionally registering or creating an Internet e-mail account for the sole or primary purpose of disguising the source of unsolicited e-mail messages. (5) directing an unsolicited commercial e-mail message to subscribers of an interactive computer service (service), knowing such to be in contravention to the rules of such service with respect to unsolicited commercial e-mail messages. Or (6) accessing the server of a service and using a computer program to collect e-mail addresses of service subscribers in order to send such subscribers unsolicited commercial e-mail or to sell or distribute a list of such subscribers. Considers each transmission received by an individual to be a separate violation for purposes of this Act. Provides appropriate relief for both individuals and service providers. Authorizes a State, through its Attorney General, to bring an action on behalf of its residents for appropriate relief.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an individual taxpayer who operates a passenger automobile or light truck a tax credit based upon the average fuel economy of such vehicle. Terminates the tax credit for alternative motor vehicles.
Path to Success: Gang Prevention through Community Partnerships Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to community colleges to establish partnerships with juvenile detention centers and secure juvenile justice residential facilities to provide assistance, services, and education to individuals age 16 through 19 who have served or are serving time in juvenile detention facilities for a gang-related offense who reenter the community and pursue: (1) a secondary education graduation certificate, a general equivalency diploma (GED), or equivalent certificate or diploma. (2) a certificate of completion for a specialized area of study. Or (3) an associate's degree. Requires such education programs to establish a uniquely designed education plan for each individual program participant that requires the individual to receive at least a secondary education certificate or diploma in order to complete the program successfully.
Foreign Investment Transparency and Security Act of 2006 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to provide that a foreign government controlled entity may acquire, own, or otherwise control or manage any critical infrastructure of the United States only through the establishment or operation of a foreign owned general business corporation that meets specified requirements. Requires a majority of the board of directors of such a corporation and its chief security officer to be US citizens. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to report to Congress on the processes and policies for implementation of a scanning system for 100 of all inbound maritime containers.
Authorizes appropriations to carry out such new matching grant program for school safety equipment, as well as for the current matching grant program for law enforcement armor vests. Expresses the sense of Congress regarding American-made products and equipment. Expresses the sense of the Senate regarding school security. Amends such Act to direct the National Institute of Justice to conduct research and otherwise work to develop new weapons detection technologies and safety systems that are appropriate to school settings.
Rural Broadband Enhancement Act - Amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to direct the Rural Utilities Service of the Department of Agriculture to make loans or other extensions of credit to eligible entities to provide funds for the construction, improvement, or acquisition of facilities and equipment for the provision of broadband telecommunications service in eligible rural communities . Prohibits any such loan or credit extension after September 20, 2006.
Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area Act of 2014 - Establishes the Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area in Utah to provide for the enhancement of recreational uses and the use of off-highway vehicles. Provides for the conveyance of federal lands in Washington County in an equal-value exchange for certain state lands identified on a Bureau of Land Management (BLM) map for the area dated November 14, 2014.
Amends the Federal criminal code to provide for criminal and civil forfeiture for mail and wire fraud. Makes specified procedures relating to forfeitures under the Controlled Substances Act applicable to forfeitures under this Act. Requires the court to order the forfeiture of any other property of the defendant up to the value of the property subject to forfeiture under this Act if, as a result of conduct of the defendant, the forfeited property cannot be located upon the exercise of due diligence or has been transferred or sold to, or deposited with, a third party, placed beyond the court's jurisdiction, substantially diminished in value, or commingled with other property which cannot be divided without difficulty. Directs that any such forfeited property be seized by the Attorney General or US Postal Service upon process issued pursuant to the Supplemental Rules for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Claims by a US district court having jurisdiction over the property, with exceptions for innocent owners or lienholders. Authorizes the Attorney General or Postal Service to seize such property without such process under specified circumstances. Directs the: (1) Attorney General, after providing for the rights of any innocent persons and deducting costs incurred by the United States in conducting the seizure, forfeiture, and identification of victims, to deposit the property forfeited or the proceeds from its sale in the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund. And (2) the Postal Service to deposit property forfeited or the proceeds into the Postal Service Fund. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) restraint or staying of the sale or disposition of property pending appeal. And (2) rules for the disposition of such property and proceeds. Requires the deposit into the Postal Service Fund of amounts from any forfeiture conducted by the Postal Service and from any forfeiture resulting from an investigation conducted by the Postal Service. Allows the Postal Service to share such amounts with any Federal or State agency whose efforts in investigating or litigating the forfeiture contributed to the receipt of such funds.
Arapaho-Roosevelt National Forests Land Exchange Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, upon completion of an appraisal of the values of certain non-federal land owned by Grand Creek, LLC, and certain National Forest System land that adjoins land owned by Grand Creek in Clear Creek County, Colorado, and upon receipt of acceptable title to the non-federal land, to simultaneously convey such federal land to Grand Creek. Provides for Grand Creek, LLC, to enter into an enforceable agreement with the Secretary to allow public use of land owned by Grand Creek as is necessary to provide unimpeded access to St. Mary's Glacier.
Veterans Identity Protection Act or VIP Act - Establishes as an independent office in the executive branch the Office of Veterans Identity Protection Claims, headed by a Director, to receive, process, and pay claims for injuries suffered as a result of the unauthorized use, disclosure, or dissemination of identifying information stolen from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or otherwise compromised as a result of a security breach. Authorizes judicial review of claim determinations.
Assured Food Safety Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to jointly establish a program to require all food items imported into the United States to bear a certificate of assured safety issued by the government of the country from which the item is imported. Directs the Secretary and the Commissioner to: (1) establish certificate requirements. And (2) prohibit a food item that does not bear such certificate from being imported into the United States. Authorizes specified exemptions. Directs the Secretary and the Commissioner, upon a food item's failure to provide the assured safety level, to prohibit the importation of any similar food item produced by the same person in the same country until the Secretary or the Commissioner inspects the production place and determines that sufficient corrective steps have been taken. Requires: (1) heightened inspections for three years following the removal of a food item's import prohibition. And (2) inspection-related user fees on foods imported into the United States. Authorizes fee waiver or reduction. Provides: (1) a private right of action against an importer. And (2) criminal penalties against an importer who knowingly imports a non-complying food item.
Settlement Trust Improvement Act of 2017 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax treatment of Alaska Native Settlement Trusts, to: (1) allow an Alaska Native Corporation to assign certain payments referenced in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to a trust without including the payments in the gross income of the corporation, (2) allow the corporation to elect annually to deduct contributions made to a trust, (3) allow a trust to elect to defer the recognition of gains related to contributions of property other than cash until the sale or exchange of the property, and (4) establish information reporting requirements for deductible contributions to a trust.
World Press Freedom Protection Act of 2015 This bill authorizes the President to impose US admissibility sanctions against a foreign person who: is responsible for severe restrictions on the freedom of expression or freedom of the press. Or has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services in support of, such an activity. The President may waive such sanctions if in US national security interests, and terminate them under specified conditions. Sanctions shall not apply if necessary to comply with the Agreement between the United Nations (U. N.) and the United States regarding the U. N. Headquarters or other applicable international obligations of the United States. The President shall report to Congress annually regarding each foreign person sanctioned, and the dates and reason for the imposition of any sanctions. It should be US policy to respond strongly to the growing number of restrictions, arrests, killings, and visa delays or denials faced by foreign journalists and their domestic employees. An executive of a foreign state-owned media organization who is applying for a nonimmigrant I-visa shall be refused the visa if any US journalist or news organization personnel were expelled, had visas denied, or faced violence in the course of working in such foreign state during the previous fiscal year. Annual country reports of human rights practices under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall now include information about the country's practices with respect to foreign journalists and their domestic personnel. It is the sense of Congress that: restrictions on journalists and media websites and Internet censorship are significant foreign trade barriers. The United States Trade Representative should include a list of blocked US websites in its annual report on foreign trade barriers. And the United States should pursue disputes to end foreign blockage of US websites at the World Trade Organization.
International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act of 2010 - Defines child marriage as the marriage of a girl or boy not yet the minimum age for marriage stipulated in law in the country in which the girl or boy is a resident, or where there is no such law, under the age of 18. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) child marriage is a violation of human rights and its prevention and elimination should be a US foreign policy goal. And (2) expanding educational opportunities for girls, economic opportunities for women, and reducing maternal and child mortality are critical to achieving the Millennium Development Goals and US global health and development objectives, including efforts to prevent HIVAIDS. Authorizes the President to provide assistance, including through multilateral, nongovernmental, and faith-based organizations, to prevent child marriage in developing countries and to promote the educational, health, economic, social, and legal empowerment of girls and women. Sets forth priority assistance criteria. Directs the President to establish a multi-year strategy to prevent child marriage and promote the empowerment of girls at risk of child marriage in developing countries, and should include addressing the unique needs, vulnerabilities, and potential of girls under age 18 in developing countries. Sets forth strategy elements. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President and all relevant agencies should collect and make available data on: (1) the incidence of child marriage in countries that receive US foreign or development assistance where the practice of child marriage is prevalent. And (2) the impact of the incidence of child marriage and the age at marriage on progress in meeting key development goals. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to require that Department of State country reports on human rights practices include a description of the status of child marriage for each country in which child marriage is prevalent.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to suspend excise taxes on gasoline and diesel fuels between May 26, 2008, and September 1, 2008. Provides for reimbursement from the Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund for any reduction in Trust Fund receipts resulting from such suspension. Expresses the policy of Congress that: (1) consumers immediately receive the benefit of the reduction in taxes resulting from this Act. And (2) transportation motor fuels producers and other dealers take necessary actions to reduce fuel prices to reflect such reduction in taxes.
Government Shutdown Accountability and Economic Report Act of 2017 This bill prohibits Members of Congress from being paid salaries during a pay period in which a government shutdown is in effect after the regularly scheduled general election for federal office held in November 2018. For the purpose of this bill, a government shutdown is considered to be in effect if there is a lapse in appropriations for any federal agency or department as a result of a failure to enact a regular appropriations bill or continuing resolution. If a government shutdown occurs during the 115th Congress, congressional salaries must be withheld during the shutdown and released to Members of Congress at the end of the Congress, subject to an exception for any day during the 115th Congress which occurs after the date of the regularly scheduled general election for federal office held in November 2018. During a government shutdown, the Congressional Budget Office must submit specified reports to Congress regarding the costs and economic effects of the shutdown.
Federally Supported Health Centers Assistance Act of 1995 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to remove provisions ending, on a specified date, the application of provisions: (1) deeming health care practitioner officers, employees, or contractors of certain entities to be employees of the Public Health Service (PHS). And (2) making a malpractice action against the United States the sole remedy against such practitioners. Adds governing board members to the list of practitioners deemed to be PHS employees. Allows, in certain circumstances, deeming the practitioners to be PHS employees while treating individuals who are not patients of such entities. Requires approval of an application for the deeming. Sets forth an application process. Directs the Attorney General to appear in State court actions to advise the court whether an officer, governing board member, employee, or contractor has been deemed to be an employee of the Public Health Service. Provides for the application of coverage to managed care plans. Revises the requirements: (1) to be considered a contractor of such an entity. And (2) of due process regarding exclusion of specific individuals from coverage. Reduces the maximum limit on the fund set up to cover annual estimated claims. Requires the Comptroller General to report to the Congress on: (1) the claims experience of entities deemed to be employees under this Act, (2) the risk exposure of those entities, (3) the value of private sector risk management services. And (4) certain comparisons, analyses, and estimates related to this Act.
Energy Conservation Through Trees Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to provide financial, technical, and related assistance to retail power providers to assist with the establishment of new, or continued operation of existing, targeted residential tree-planting programs. Requires the Secretary to create a national public recognition initiative to encourage participation in tree-planting programs by such providers. Limits assistance provided under this Act to programs that utilize targeted, strategic tree-siting guidelines to plant trees in relation to residence location, sunlight, and prevailing wind direction. Sets forth requirements that must be met for tree-planting programs to qualify for assistance. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants only to providers that have entered into binding legal agreements with nonprofit tree-planting organizations. Requires providers, in order to qualify for assistance, to establish and consult with a local technical advisory committee, which shall provide advice and consultation to the program, and which may: (1) design and adopt an approved plant list that emphasizes the use of hardy, noninvasive tree species, native or low water-use shade trees, or both. (2) design and adopt planting, installation, and maintenance specifications and create a process for inspection and quality control. (3) ensure that tree recipients are educated to care for and maintain their trees over the long term. (4) help the public become more engaged and educated in the planting and care of shade trees. (5) prioritize which sites receive trees, giving preference to locations with the most potential for energy conservation and secondary preference to areas where the average annual income is below the regional median. And (6) assist with monitoring and collection of data on tree health, tree survival, and energy conservation benefits generated under this Act.
Health Empowerment Zone Act of 2003 - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to designate a community as a health empowerment zone if a participating community partnership: (1) requests such designation. And (2) demonstrates that the community is a community of color experiencing disproportionate disparities in health status and health care. Directs the Secretary to make: (1) grants to community partnerships of private and public entities to establish health empowerment zone programs to assist individuals, businesses, schools, minority health associations, nonprofit organizations, community-based organizations, hospitals, health care clinics, and foundations in a health empowerment zone that are seeking to improve the health or environment of minority individuals and eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in health status and health care. (2) at least one grant in a health empowerment zone in a US territory or possession. And (3) establish a health empowerment zone coordinating committee for each zone. Directs the Secretary, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to provide assistance for such programs.
Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Act of 1999 - Amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to direct the Secretary of Commerce to establish the John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue Assistance Grant Program to provide assistance to eligible stranding network participants for: (1) marine mammal rescue and treatment, (2) data collection from living or dead marine mammals. And (3) facilities operation. Directs the Secretary to establish a related advisory group. Caps grants at $100,000. Require s a 25 percent non-Federal matching amount, which may be in-kind contributions. Authorizes FY 2001 through 2003 appropriations.
Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to increase, as of December 1, 2008, the rates of veterans' disability compensation, additional compensation for dependents, the clothing allowance for certain disabled adult children, and dependency and indemnity compensation for surviving spouses and children. Requires each such increase to be the same percentage as the increase in benefits provided under title II of the Social Security Act, on the same effective date. Codifies rate amounts as increased under the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2007.
Consumer Identity Protection and Security Act - Requires a consumer reporting agency to place a security freeze on a private information file upon consumer request, subject to waiver by such consumer with respect to limited or temporary access to such file to a particular third party. Identifies federal, state, and local agencies permitted access to such frozen information files. Grants the Federal Trade Commission and specified federal agencies enforcement powers for violations of this Act. Empowers the consumer to file a civil action in any court if a consumer reporting agency violates the requirements of this Act. Prohibits a consumer reporting agency from imposing service fees or charges for implementing the consumer security freeze requests authorized under this Act.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on February 9, 2016. Directing Dollars to Disaster Relief Act of 2015 This bill directs the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to: develop and implement an integrated plan to control and reduce administrative costs incurred by FEMA in support of the delivery of assistance for major disasters. Compare the costs and benefits of tracking the administrative cost data for major disasters by the public assistance, individual assistance, hazard mitigation, and mission assignment programs, track such information. And clarify FEMA guidance and minimum documentation requirements for a direct administrative cost claimed by a grantee or subgrantee of a public assistance grant program authorized by the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. FEMA must submit to Congress, by November 30 of each year for seven years beginning on the date of this Act's enactment, and make publicly available on its website, a report on the development and implementation of the plan for the previous fiscal year, with three-year and five-year updates. Each report shall contain: the total amount spent on administrative costs and the average annual percentage of administrative costs for the fiscal year period for which the report is being submitted, an assessment of the effectiveness of the plan. An analysis of whether FEMA is achieving its strategic goals for the average annual percentage of administrative costs of major disasters for each fiscal year and, in the case of it not achieving such goals, what is preventing it from doing so. Any actions FEMA has identified as useful in improving upon and reaching those goals. And any administrative cost data for major disasters, if FEMA determines it is feasible to track such data.
Workforce Training Enhancement Act of 2016 This bill amends the Trade Act of 1974, with respect to trade adjustment assistance (TAA) for training to adversely affected workers, to authorize a state to use certain funds distributed by the Department of Labor to reimburse the costs of providing training to an adversely affected worker before the worker is approved for training under the Act if those costs have been paid by: the state from state funds, the state or local workforce development areas within the state from funds available for workforce investment activities and providers under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, or another entity eligible in the state under the national dislocated worker grants program from funds available for that program. The use of funds under this Act shall be conditioned, however, on the worker's coverage by a certification for TAA eligibility for training meeting approval requirements which commenced after the date on which the total or partial separations of the group of workers covered by the certification for eligibility began or threatened to begin.
Tenth Amendment Enforcement Act of 1998 - Requires any statute enacted by the Congress after 1998 to include declarations that: (1) the authority to govern in the area addressed is delegated to the Congress by the Constitution. (2) Congress has a greater degree of competence than the States to govern in that area. And (3) any preemption of State law is specifically intended by the Congress and is necessary. Makes it out of order for the Senate or House of Representatives to consider any legislation that does not include such declarations. Amends Federal law to prohibit any Federal agency from construing any statutory authorization to issue rules as authorizing preemption of State law or local ordinance by rulemaking or other agency action, unless the statute expressly authorizes issuance of preemptive rules and the agency concludes that the exercise of State power directly conflicts with the exercise of Federal power under the Federal statute such that the State statutes and the Federal rule promulgated under the Federal statute cannot be reconciled or consistently stand together. Requires all States to be provided with notice and an opportunity for comment when a Federal agency proposes preemptive rulemaking or other agency action. Requires the table of contents of each Federal Register to contain a list of preemptive rules contained within that Register. Provides that a final agency rule shall not be construed to preempt any State or local law unless it contains an explicit declaration of the intention to do so. Requires each Federal agency to publish in the Federal Register a plan for periodic review of the rules issued by the agency that preempt State or local government powers to determine whether such rules should be altered or repealed. Prohibits any adjudicative body to construe a statute enacted after enactment of this Act to preempt State or local law unless: (1) the statute contains an explicit declaration of intent to preempt. Or (2) there is a direct conflict with State or local law that cannot be reconciled. Requires any ambiguity to be construed in favor of preserving the authority of the States. Requires that funds received by a State under Federal law shall be subject to appropriation by the State legislature. Directs the Congressional Research Service, after each Congress adjourns, to prepare and make publicly available a report on the extent of Federal statutory preemption of State and local government powers enacted into law during that Congress or adopted through judicial interpretation of Federal statutes.
Makes similar changes under the Federal Employee Health Benefits program, Medicare program, Medicaid program, and programs affecting Indians, veterans, the uniformed services, and prisoners. Title II: Therapeutic Equivalence Requirements for Generic Drugs - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require that for each abbreviated drug application file there shall be a determination as to whether the new drug for which the application is filed is the therapeutic equivalent of a listed drug prior to the approval of the application. Title III: Generic Pharmaceuticals and Medicare Reform - Expresses the sense of the Senate that legislative language requiring, to the extent feasible, a preference for the safe and cost-effective use of generic pharmaceuticals should be considered in conjunction with any legislation that adds a comprehensive prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program.
Authorizes the President to extend nondiscriminatory treatment to the products of the Russian Federation. Declares that it is the policy of the United States to remain fully committed to a multifaceted engagement with the Russian Federation, including by urging the Russian Federation to ensure that its laws and policies in conformity with Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) standards provide for the free emigration of its citizens and recognize human rights. Declares that the trade agreement between the United States and the Russian Federation that entered into force on June 17, 1992, remains in force and provides the United States with important rights, including the right to use specific safeguard rules to respond to import surges from the Russian Federation. Requires the President to notify Congress not later than five days after the United States has entered into a bilateral agreement with the Russian Federation on the terms of its accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO). Provides for congressional approval of such agreement.
Justice for Public Safety Officers Act - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit and impose enhanced criminal penalties for: (1) killing a federally protected safety officer while such officer is engaged in official duties or on the account of the performance of such duties. And (2) interstate or foreign flight to avoid prosecution, custody, or confinement for killing a federally protected safety officer. Defines federally protected safety officer as a public safety officer for a public agency that receives annual federal assistance of more than $10,000. Includes within the definition of federally protected safety officer judicial officers, law enforcement officers, firefighters, chaplains, and members of a rescue squad or ambulance crew.
Graduation Really Achieves Dreams Act - GRAD Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award a grant to Project GRAD USA, a nonprofit educational organization for improving high school graduation and college attendance and completion rates for at-risk students, to provide technical assistance and support through subgrants to existing and new programs that implement a set of integrated education reform services. Requires the grantee to select only subgrantees that serve a substantial number or percentage of at-risk students. Requires the programs to identify one or more groups of public schools at which services will be provided through a feeder pattern through which elementary and secondary schools channel students having participated in program services into an identified high school. Requires program services to include: (1) research-based programs in reading, mathematics, and classroom management. (2) campus-based social services programs, including increasing family and community involvement in schools. (3) a college access program, including providing college scholarships for students who meet established criteria, increasing student and family college awareness, and assisting students to apply for college financial aid, and (4) other services the grantee identifies as necessary.
Flight 93 National Memorial Act - Establishes at the site in Stonycreek Township, Somerset County, Pennsylvania, where Flight 93 crashed on September 11, 2001, and as a unit of the National Park System a memorial to honor the passengers and crewmembers who died. Establishes a Flight 93 Advisory Commission to recommend planning, design, construction, and long-term management of the memorial.
Meeting Our Responsibility to Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2005 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) with respect to: (1) negotiating fair prices for Medicare prescription drugs, (2) elimination of the MA Regional Plan Stabilization Fund. (3) application of risk adjustment reflecting characteristics for the entire Medicare population in payments to Medicare advantage organizations. (4) modification of the annual out-of-pocket threshold with respect to prescription drug benefits, (5) requiring two prescription drug plans to avoid Federal fallback, (6) waiver of the part D. (7) transition of full-benefit dual eligible individuals to coverage under the Medicare drug benefit. And (8) Medicare part B premium reduction. Directs the Secretary to study and report to Congress on providing incentives to preserve retiree coverage. Amends SSA title XVIII to direct the Secretary to make certain information regarding the sponsor of a qualified prescription drug plan receiving a subsidy under the prescription drug program available to the public through the Internet website of the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services.
Amends the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act to repeal a provision regarding the granting of ownership or control of Native American cultural items which are excavated or discovered on Federal or tribal lands after November 16, 1990, and for which a cultural affiliation is not readily ascertainable. Directs that such items excavated or discovered on Federal lands: (1) be reasonably recorded according to generally accepted scientific standards. (2) remain under the control of the agency having primary management authority for the land on which the item was excavated or discovered until 90 days after the publication in the Federal Register of a notice setting out a general description of the item, its estimated age, and the general area of discovery. And (3) be subject to the following study provisions. Revises study and recording provisions to provide that, in cases of human remains and associated funerary objects for which no lineal descendants have been identified and in cases of other cultural items, if the cultural affiliation of a cultural item has: (1) not been established, studies may be conducted in an attempt to establish such an affiliation or to obtain scientific, historical, or cultural information. And (2) been established with an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization, studies of such item may be conducted if needed for the completion of a specific study, the outcome of which is reasonably expected to provide significant new information concerning the history or prehistory of the United States. Requires the Federal agency or museum with custody of the cultural item to: (1) return an item to the affiliated tribe or organization, upon request, within 90 days after the study is completed. And (2) provide a report of the results to such tribe or organization within 180 days after the study is completed. Provides that if a study of a specified cultural item is requested, the Federal agency or museum with custody of such item must make such item reasonably available for such study unless, within 90 days after the request for the study is made, the Secretary determines that the agency or museum has reasonably established that the potential scientific benefit of the requested study is outweighed by curatorial, cultural, or other reasonable considerations.
Protecting Railroads against Enemy Efforts through Modernization, Planning, and Technology Act - Directs the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Border and Transportation Security, to develop a national railroad transportation security plan that identifies threats and vulnerabilities to the Nation's railroads and provides a plan for increased security. Directs the Secretary to develop prioritized recommendations for improving railroad security, including: (1) the security of rail tunnels and bridges and other rail infrastructure and facilities. (2) deployment of equipment to detect explosives and hazardous chemical, biological, and radioactive substances. (3) installation of redundant and backup systems to ensure continued operation in the event of a terrorist attack. And (4) deployment of surveillance equipment. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to railroads, hazardous materials shippers, owners of rail cars used in transportation of hazardous materials, universities, colleges, and research centers, and State and local governments for reimbursement of costs incurred to prevent or respond to acts of terrorism, sabotage, or other railroad security threats. Authorizes the Secretary to procure fire and life-safety improvements to the tunnels on the Northeast Corridor in New York, New York, Baltimore, Maryland, and Washington, D. C. Directs the Secretary to review existing Department of Transportation (DOT) rail regulations to identify areas in which those regulations need to be revised to improve railroad security.
GI Bill Processing Improvement Act This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to make available to an educational institution through a secure information technology system the amount of specified veterans educational assistance available to a veteran or an individual pursuing a VA approved-course at such institution. The bill extends the authority for the Veteran's Advisory Committee on Education until December 31, 2022. A reporting fee paid by the VA to an educational institution or joint apprenticeship training committee after the date of enactment of the Post-911 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2011 with respect to an institution that has 75 or more enrollees may not be used for or merged with amounts available for the general fund of the educational institution or joint apprenticeship training committee. The VA shall prescribe training requirements for a school certifying official employed by a covered educational institution offering approved veterans education courses. A covered educational institution is an institution that has enrolled 20 or more individuals using veterans educational assistance. The bill increases VA funding for state approving agencies and requires the VA to provide such agencies with a cost of living adjustment that equals the same percentage increase as benefits provided under title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act.
Small Business Relief and Job Creation Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow small business employers whose gross receipts in the preceding taxable year did not exceed $20 million or who did not employ more than 100 full-time employees during the preceding taxable year a work opportunity tax credit for hiring unemployed individuals as full-time employees during 2018 or 2019. The bill doubles the rate of such credit for employers located in counties with unemployment rates that exceed the national rate of unemployment.
Community Coalitions for Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to assist in developing integrated health care delivery systems to serve defined communities of individuals to: (1) improve efficiency and coordination among providers. (2) assist local communities in developing programs targeted toward preventing and managing chronic diseases. And (3) expand and enhance services provided. Authorizes the Secretary, in awarding grants, to accord priority to: (1) applicants that demonstrate the greatest unmet need for a more coordinated system of care. And (2) applicants that best promote the objectives of this Act. Authorizes a grantee to use amounts provided only for: (1) direct expenses associated with achieving greater integration of a health care delivery system to directly provide or ensure the provision of a broad range of culturally competent services. And (2) direct patient care and service expansions to fill identified or documented gaps within an integrated delivery system.
First Time Property Owners Tax Credit Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an income-based, one-time refundable tax credit for first-time homebuyers of 5 of the purchase price of real property located in the United States, up to a maximum credit amount of $1,500 . Makes such credit applicable to purchases of property on or after January 1, 2008, and before January 1, 2013, and to binding contracts made between such dates to purchase such property before July 1, 2014.
Intergovernmental Law Enforcement Information Sharing Act of 2001 - Directs the Attorney General to expeditiously carry out security clearance investigations for, and to grant appropriate security clearances to, specified persons, including: (1) every Governor who applies for a security clearance. (2) at least one senior law enforcement official for each State or territory. (3) law enforcement officers from State, territorial, and local agencies that participate in Federal counter-terrorism working groups or joint or regional terrorism task forces. And (4) the chiefs, commissioners, sheriffs, or comparable officials who head State, territorial, and local agencies that participate in such working groups or task forces. Authorizes the Attorney General to: (1) charge State, territorial, and local governments for the costs of carrying out security clearance investigations and granting security clearances, not to exceed the amounts charged for Federal employees. And (2) waive any charges that would otherwise apply to a State, territorial, or local government if such government agrees to promptly provide Federal officials, without charge, with access to criminal databases for the purpose of conducting personnel security background investigations for military, civilian, and contract employees. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) ensure that information systems, including databases, are configured to allow efficient and effective sharing of information among appropriate Federal, State, territorial, and local officials and agencies. And (2) conduct a study of methods to enhance the sharing of sensitive Federal law enforcement information with State, territorial, and local law enforcement officials.
Weekends Without Hunger Act - Amends the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture, subject to the availability of appropriations, to implement a pilot program providing commodities, on a competitive basis, to nonprofits for the provision of nutritious food to at-risk school children on weekends and during extended school holidays during the school year. Includes elementary and secondary schools, school food authorities, food banks or pantries, homeless shelters, and other Secretary-approved emergency feeding agencies as eligible nonprofit recipients of such commodities. Requires commodity recipients to satisfy safe food storage, handling, and delivery standards established by the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to: (1) complete an interim evaluation of the pilot program by November 30, 2013. And (2) submit a final report to Congress by December 31, 2015, that contains an evaluation of such program and any recommendations the Secretary may have for legislative action. Authorizes appropriations for the pilot program.
Chacoan Outliers Protection Act of 1993 - Designates seven new outlying areas as Chaco Culture Archaeological Protection Sites associated with Chacoan Anasazi Indian culture in the San Juan Basin and surrounding areas of New Mexico and Colorado. Expands the boundaries and removes or reduces the acreage of certain existing Sites. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to assist the Navajo Nation in the protection and management of such Sites located on lands of the Navajos through a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement entered into pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act.
Helping Our Professionals Educationally (HOPE) Act of 2001 - Authorizes the Secretary of each military department to permit a member who is entitled to basic educational assistance under the Veterans Educational Assistance Program (VEAP), has served at least six years, has a critical military skill or is in a military specialty designated as critical, and agrees to serve at least four more years to transfer such assistance to one or more dependents. Allows up to 18 months of entitlement to be transferred. Prohibits a spouse from using such assistance until the transferor has completed six years of service. Prohibits a child from using such assistance until the transferor has completed ten years of service and the child has completed secondary school requirements or is 18 years of age. Authorizes a VEAP-entitled individual to elect to receive an accelerated lump-sum payment of basic educational assistance, under specified conditions. Makes Montgomery GI Bill benefits available for training which leads to licensing or certification in technological occupations. Makes members who continue in the Selected Reserve beyond the ten-year period required for entitlement to educational assistance eligible for such assistance for five years after separation from such service .
HIVAIDS Assistance Reauthorization Act of 2007 - Amends the United States Leadership Against HIVAIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 to authorize appropriations for HIVAIDS assistance. Revises fund allocation provisions, including requiring that at least 50 of funds be made available for the promotion of abstinence, fidelity, and other preventative measures. Extends the minimum 10 funding obligation for orphans and vulnerable children through FY2013. Authorizes the President to increase proportional support for the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, within the authorized amounts under this Act, if specified performance, accountability, and transparency benchmarks are met. Authorizes appropriations for Fund contributions through FY2013.
Caribbean National Forest Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 2002 - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate Rio Mameyes, Rio de la Mina, and Rio Icacos of the Caribbean National Forest of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Provides that such designation shall not be construed to limit the authority of Puerto Rico over waters and natural channels of its public domain or to prevent any of the following activities within such segments: (1) installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorological, climatological, or atmospheric data collection and transmission facilities when they are essential to the scientific research purposes of the Luquillo Experimental Forest. (2) construction and maintenance of nesting structures, observation blinds, and population monitoring platforms for threatened and endangered species. Or (3) construction and maintenance of trails to such facilities as necessary for research purposes and the recovery of such species. Provides that all such activities shall be subject to such conditions as the Secretary of Agriculture considers desirable. Requires the Secretary to ensure that the scale and scope of such activities are not detrimental to a river segment's characteristics that merited its designation as a wild, scenic, or recreational river.
Colonias Improvement Act of 2014 - Directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue, in consultation with the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Department of Agriculture (USDA), a rule defining colonia that: is the same for any program of the EPA, HUD, or USDA that specifically includes assistance for colonias. Is limited to a community that is located within 75 miles of the border or that has applied for or received funding under a covered program before this Act's enactment. Reflects and preserves the historic, geographic, and cultural character of the communities served by the covered program. And may be used to determine whether an applicant qualifies for assistance under a program. Directs the EPA, HUD, and USDA to establish and update an online clearinghouse with information relating to covered programs and links to information specific to each state. Requires EPA to establish a working group that includes HUD and USDA to review covered programs, record information relating to each award made under a covered program, hold public hearings, and make recommendations to Congress for improving the programs.
Green Railcar Enhancement Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow, through 2011, a new business-related tax credit for 25 of the cost of acquiring or rebuilding freight railcars which achieve an increase in capacity or fuel efficiency of at least 8.
Small Business Reform Act of 2010 or Not Too Small to Succeed in Business Act of 2010 - Amends the Small Business Act to extend from: (1) 9 to 11 years the period that a small business may receive developmental assistance under the Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development Program (Program). And (2) five to seven years the period that such a small business may spend in the Program's transitional stage. Allows small businesses that previously completed the 9-year period, above, and whose current net worth exceeds $750,000 but is less than $2.25 million to participate for an additional two years. Sets net worth limits for individual Program participants at: (1) $750,000, for Program admission, (2) $2.25 million, for continued Program participation after admission. And (3) $500,000 adjusted gross income, for Program admission and continued eligibility. Provides that, if the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) graduated a small business from the Program prior to the date of enactment of this Act on the basis that the small business did not meet standards relating to economic disadvantage and the small business now meets such standards, the small business may participate in the Program for 11 years less any period of previous participation.
English Language Empowerment Act of 1996 - Declares English to be the official language of the US Government. States that the Federal Government have an affirmative obligation to preserve and enhance the role of English as the official language of the Federal Government. Requires the Federal Government to conduct its official business in English. Prohibits anyone from being denied Government services because he or she communicates in English. Requires that all officials conduct all naturalization ceremonies entirely in English. Sets forth definitions for purposes of this Act.
Student Right to Know Before You Go Act of 2015 This bill amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to modify reporting requirements for institutions of higher education (IHEs) that participate in title IV federal financial aid programs. Currently, to retain title IV eligibility, IHEs must report data to the Department of Education (ED) through the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). This bill requires IHEs to submit additional student enrollment data to ED to enable coding and reporting on students' level of academic preparation. It also requires ED to calculate additional outcome measures by institution and program, including: the percentage of students who receive federal, state, or institutional grants or loans, the average amount of federal loan debt upon graduation. The average amount of total federal loan debt of students who do not complete a program of study, student transfer rates, rates of continuation to higher levels of education. And the percentage of students who receive the degree they initially sought. ED must report additional outcome measures established by this Act, as well as all existing student data in IPEDS, based on these student types: receipt or non-receipt of federal Pell Grants, receipt or non-receipt of Stafford Loans,nbsp. Participation in the Post-911 Veterans Educational Assistance Program, enrollment status, and enrollment intensity. ED must also, in cooperation with the Social Security Administration, make publicly available data on employment metrics and median annual earnings 2 years, 6 years, and 15 years after program completion. ED must report the data by: education program, credential received, institution, and state of employment.
Teachers and First Responders Back to Work Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of Education to allocate grants to states and, through them, subgrants to local educational agencies (LEAs) for the costs of retaining, recalling, rehiring, or hiring employees to provide early childhood, elementary, or secondary education and related services. Allows states to reserve up to 10 of their grant for awards, for the same purposes, to state-funded early learning programs. Requires LEAs and state-funded early learning programs to obligate such funds by the close of FY2013. Prohibits the use of such grants to supplant state funding for education. Directs the Attorney General to carry out a competitive grant program pursuant to the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 for the hiring, rehiring, or retention of career law enforcement officers. Makes appropriations to the Community Oriented Policing Stabilization Fund to carry out such program and for transfer to a First Responder Stabilization Fund from which the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) shall make competitive grants for hiring additional firefighters pursuant to the Federal Fire Prevention Control Act of 1974. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose on individual taxpayers in taxable years beginning after 2012 an additional tax equal to 0.5 of so much of their modified adjusted gross income as exceeds $1 million. Defines modified adjusted gross income as adjusted gross income reduced by any deduction allowed for investment interest. Provides for an inflation adjustment to the $1 million threshold amount for taxable years beginning after 2013.
Service for Schools Act of 2015 This bill amends the National and Community Service Act of 1990 to direct the Corporation for National and Community Service to establish the National Service for Schools Program to carry out activities concerning a Service Opportunity Registry that shall list eligible service opportunities and the registered organizations that offer them. Upon receiving an application from an organization that offers an eligible service opportunity, the Corporation shall register it in a specified manner, including a description of the eligible service opportunity in the Registry. To be eligible to participate in and receive credit for service in a service opportunity listed in the Registry, qualified students must apply to their participating State Commission on National and Community Service. Each organization shall: record the qualifying hours of service completed by each qualified student who participates in a service opportunity. And notify the appropriate State Commission at least annually of the number of qualifying hours of service completed by each qualified student on a service opportunity. Eligible students shall receive an award of $10,000 from the National Services for Schools Account for use to: repay eligible student loans, or pay all or part of the cost of attendance or other educational expenses at an institution of higher education.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: NAFTA Renegotiation Act Title II: WTO Dispute Settlement Review Commission Act NAFTA Renegotiation and WTO Dispute Settlement Review Commission Act - Title I: NAFTA Renegotiation Act - Requires the President to renegotiate the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to correct trade deficits and currency distortions. Requires reports to the Congress assessing the impact of NAFTA on US jobs and the environment. Requires the President to consult with the Congress with respect to the renegotiations. Title II: WTO Dispute Settlement Review Commission Act - Establishes the WTO Dispute Settlement Review Commission to review: (1) all reports of dispute settlement panels or the Appellate Body of the World Trade Organization (WTO) which are adverse to the United States and adopted by the Dispute Settlement Body. And (2) upon request of the US Trade Representative (USTR), any other report of such bodies adopted by the Dispute Settlement Body. Requires the USTR to undertake negotiations to amend the rules and procedures of the dispute settlement understanding upon enactment of a joint resolution mandating such negotiations. Permits participation in WTO panel proceedings in support of the United States of a private US person with a direct economic interest in the resolution of the matters in dispute.
Executive Cyberspace Coordination Act of 2015 This bill establishes the National Office for Cyberspace within the Executive Office of the President, to be headed by a Director. The Office shall serve as the principal office for coordinating issues relating to cyberspace, including achieving an assured, reliable, secure, and survivable information infrastructure while promoting national economic interests, security, and civil liberties. The bill defines information infrastructure as the underlying framework that information systems and assets rely on to process, store, or transmit information electronically. The bill assigns new duties to the Director, including: (1) reviewing at least annually, and approving or disapproving, agency information security programs. (2) coordinating information security training for federal employees with the Office of Personnel Management. And (3) ensuring the adequacy of protections for privacy and civil liberties. The head of each agency must submit to the Director an annual budget relating to the protection of information infrastructure for the agency, which shall include a review of any threats to information technology for such agency and a plan to secure the information infrastructure for such agency based on threats to information technology.
National Election Standards Act of 2001 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA) to direct the Federal Election Commission (FEC) to provide uniform national election standards meeting specified criteria with regard to procedures for elections to Federal office. Authorizes FEC to make grants to States to provide for the cost of implementing such standards for elections to Federal office. Establishes civil and criminal penalties for violation of such standards. Amends Federal presidential elections and vacancies law and other Federal election law to provide for a change in the date with respect to the timing of the appointment of presidential and vice presidential electors, and with respect to the timing of the holding of congressional elections. Amends the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require each State to establish procedures to allow voters in the State to register to vote at the polling place at the time of voting in a general election for Federal office.
Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act of 2016 This bill directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prescribe rules prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the provision of funeral goods or services. nbsp. The rules must: (1) require price information to be disclosed clearly and conspicuously. (2) prohibit misrepresentations or the provision of goods or services being conditioned upon the purchase of other goods or services from the provider. (3) require presale disclosures and contracts to be written clearly, stating the merchandise, services, and prices and disclosing any penalties for canceling or transferring a contract. (4) require cemeteries to provide consumers all written rules and regulations of the cemetery and all material terms and conditions of purchase. And (5) require cemeteries to retain all records in existence on the date of enactment of this bill and accurately record and retain records of interments, inurnments, or entombments. Cemeteries subject to the FTC's rules shall include those organized or operated by states, political subdivisions, or tax-exempt organizations. nbsp. But the bill excludes cemeteries organized, operated, managed, and owned by a religious organization and that are not affiliated with a for-profit provider offering funeral goods and services for sale to the public. The FTC and states are provided authority to enforce against violations.
National Parks Capital Improvements Act of 1996 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter into a memorandum of agreement with an entity to act as an authorized fundraising organization for the benefit of the Grand Canyon National Park and any other national park designated by the Secretary that has an approved general management plan with capital needs in excess of $5 million. Requires the organization to issue taxable bonds in return for a park surcharge. Exempts the United States from liability for the security of such bonds, unless the surcharge authorized under this Act is not imposed or is reduced or eliminated. Authorizes the Secretary to permit the Superintendent of the park to charge and collect, in addition to the park entrance fee, a surcharge of not to exceed two dollars per individual. Requires the fundraising organization to: (1) use the surcharge to amortize the bond issue, provide for the reasonable costs of administration, and maintain a sufficient reserve consistent with industry standards. And (2) remit any excess funds to the National Park Foundation (NPF) to be used for the benefit of all National Park System (NPS) units. Allows bond proceeds to be used for a park facility project that is consistent with: (1) the laws governing the NPS and the park. And (2) the general management plan for the park. Prohibits bond proceeds from being used to defray administrative expenses. Requires interest earned on bond proceeds to be used by the organization to meet reserve requirements and defray administrative expenses incurred in connection with the management and sale of the bonds, with any excess to be remitted to the NPF for the benefit of all NPS units.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an income tax deduction for qualified postsecondary education expenses of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's spouse or dependent.
Job Creation and Energy Efficiency Act - Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to authorize the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to provide credit support to ameliorate risks for a debt or repayment obligation incurred in connection with financing the installation and implementation of efficiency, advanced metering, distributed generation, or renewable energy technologies and measures that are expected to increase the energy efficiency of one or more buildings . Makes commercial, multifamily residential, industrial, municipal, government institutions of higher education, school, and hospital facilities eligible for such support. Includes among financing mechanisms that qualify as efficiency obligations: (1) loans, (2) power purchase agreements, (3) energy services agreements, (4) property assessed clean energy bonds and other tax assessment-based financing mechanisms, and (5) aggregate on-meter agreements that finance retrofit projects. Requires the Secretary to prioritize: (1) the maximization of energy savings with the available credit support funding. (2) the establishment of a clear application and approval process that allows private building owners, lenders, and investors to reasonably expect to receive credit support for projects that conform to guidelines. (3) the distribution of projects receiving credit support across states or geographical regions. And (4) projects designed to achieve whole-building retrofits. Prohibits the Secretary from issuing credit support that exceeds: (1) 90 of the principal amount of the obligation that is the subject of the support, or (2) $25 million for any project. Requires the Secretary to report on such support. Authorizes the Secretary to charge reasonable fees for such support.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on September 19, 2016. Cyber Preparedness Act of 2016 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Security's (DHS's) State, Local, and Regional Fusion Center Initiative to coordinate with the national cybersecurity and communications integration center (NCCIC) to provide state, local, and regional fusion centers with expertise on DHS cybersecurity resources. DHS must: (1) provide timely access to technical assistance, risk management support, and incident response capabilities for cybersecurity threat indicators, defensive measures, risks, and incidents, including cybersecurity risks to equipment and technology related to the electoral process. (2) review cybersecurity risk information gathered by fusion centers to incorporate into DHS's cybersecurity risk information. And (3) disseminate cybersecurity risk information to fusion centers. Fusion center officers or intelligence analysts may be assigned from the NCCIC. Such officers and analysts must assist fusion centers in using cybersecurity risk information to develop a comprehensive and accurate threat picture. The NCCIC may include, and must share analysis and best practices with, state and major urban area fusion centers. States, local or tribal governments, or high-risk urban areas receiving grants to protect against terrorism under the Urban Area Security Initiative or the State Homeland Security Grant Program may use the funds to: (1) prepare for and respond to cybersecurity risks and incidents, and (2) develop statewide cyber threat information analysis and dissemination activities. The bill expresses the sense of Congress that DHS should share actionable information related to cyber threats in an unclassified form to facilitate timely dissemination to state, local, and private sector stakeholders.
Mercury-Safe Seafood Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a tolerance and sampling system, and related public education and health advisory system, respecting the presence of methylmercury in seafood. Deems as unsafe any seafood not meeting such tolerance.
Regulatory Integrity Act of 2016 This bill directs each executive agency to make publicly available on the agency website or in the rule making docket on Regulations. gov a list of pending agency regulatory actions and for each such action: the date the agency began to develop or consider the action, its status, an estimate of the date it will be final and in effect, and a brief description of such action. A list of any duplicative or overlapping regulatory actions issued by the same or any other agency. If a regulatory impact analysis has been conducted, the findings of such analysis, including any data or formula used for purposes of such analysis. And a list of each public communication about the action issued by the agency, including the date of the communication, its intended audience, the method of communication, and a copy of the original communication. Each agency shall publish the information required within 24 hours after such communication is issued and maintain the public availability of such information for at least 5 years after the action is finalized. Any public communication issued by an agency that refers to a pending agency regulatory action: shall specify whether the agency is considering alternatives and accepting comments. Shall expressly disclose that the agency is the source of the information to the intended recipients. And may not solicit support for or promote the action, be sent through the private email account of an agency officer or employee, or include statements of aggrandizement for the agency, any federal employee, or the action. An agency that communicated about a pending agency regulatory action during the previous fiscal year shall submit to each congressional committee with jurisdiction over the agency's activities, by January 15 of each year, a report indicating: the number of pending agency regulatory actions the agency issued public communications about during that fiscal year, the average number of public communications issued by the agency for each such action, and the five pending actions with the highest number of public communications issued by the agency in that fiscal year and a copy of each such communication. The report shall be made publicly available on the agency's website.
Dine College Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of the Interior to conduct a survey and study of all capital projects and facility needs of Dine College, a tribal community college in the Navajo Nation in Arizona. Interior must report the results and include views or recommendations submitted by the college or the Navajo Nation and Interior's recommendations. Prior to the survey and study, Dine College must identify for Interior renovations and repairs necessary to meet health and safety standards and other requirements. Interior must make grants to Dine College for activities including construction, operation and maintenance, education, summer programs, student services, and college expansion. Amounts made available to Dine College under this bill are treated as non-federal, private funds for the purposes of any federal law that requires the use of non-federal or private funds.
Kake Tribal Corporation Land Exchange Act - Amends the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to direct the Secretary of the Interior, subject to valid existing rights and easements, to enter into a land exchange under which there is conveyed to the: (1) Kake Tribal Corporation title to certain land suitable for development. (2) Sealaska Corporation title to subsurface estate in such land needed as a municipal watershed area. And (3) United States, by the Kake Corporation, specified lands. Directs that timber harvested from lands conveyed to the Kake Tribal Council shall not be made available for export as unprocessed logs from Alaska, nor may Kake Tribal Corporation sell, trade, exchange, substitute, or otherwise convey such logs to any other person for the purpose of exporting such logs from the State of Alaska.
Federal Accountability for Nuclear Waste Storage Act of 2007 - Amends the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to require commercial nuclear power plant operators to transfer, within six years after enactment of this Act, spent nuclear fuel from spent nuclear fuel pools into spent nuclear fuel dry casks at an independent spent fuel storage facility generally licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and located at the power reactor site. Directs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) make grants to compensate a contractor for expenses incurred in carrying out such transfer. And (2) accept conveyance of title to a spent nuclear fuel dry cask from the contractor following certification of compliance by the NRC. States that conveyance of title confers upon the Secretary full responsibility for the possession, stewardship, maintenance, monitoring, and ultimate disposition of all transferred spent nuclear fuel. Authorizes the Secretary to contract with the holder of an NRC operating license for power reactors located on or adjacent to the spent nuclear fuel dry cask for the performance of such tasks.
Reigniting Opportunity for Innovators Act This bill amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to make qualified founders and full-time employees of small business start-ups eligible for deferring for up to three years their loans under the federal Direct Loan program. If the start-up is located in an economically distressed area, qualified founders and employees are also eligible for loan cancellation of up to $20,000 under that program.
Fairness in Immigration Litigation Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to preclude aliens, including criminal aliens, from seeking judicial review of removal orders or the denial of specified discretionary relief through habeas corpus, mandamus, or other extraordinary petitions. Declares that this Act does not preclude circuit court review on appeal of constitutional claims or pure questions of law. Establishes the INA's judicial review provisions as the sole avenue for challenging removal orders and reviewing claims arising under the United Nations Convention Against Torture and Other Forms of Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. Limits judicial authority to grant stays of removal. Requires all petitions for review of removal orders to be filed in the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Expands the list of alternative countries to which an alien may be removed in the event that the country otherwise designated is unwilling to accept the alien. Requires asylum applicants to: (1) show that one of five statutory bases was the central motive for persecution in order to establish refugee status. And (2) submit corroborating evidence where it is reasonable for the trier of fact to expect such evidence. Lists factors relevant to credibility determinations in asylum cases. Precludes the reversal of determinations concerning the availability of corroborating evidence unless the court finds that a reasonable adjudicator is compelled to conclude that such corroborating evidence is unavailable.
Applies the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 and the remedies and procedures referred to in the Fair Employment Practices Resolution to any: (1) employee of the House of Representatives, (2) employing authority of the House. Or (3) employee of the Architect of the Capitol, the Congressional Budget Office, the General Accounting Office, the Government Printing Office, the Office of Technology Assessment, or the US Botanic Garden. Applies the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to: (1) the Congressional Budget Office, (2) the General Accounting Office, (3) the Government Printing Office, (4) the Library of Congress, (5) the Office of Technology Assessment. And (6) the US Botanic Garden. Requires the Architect of the Capitol to report to the Congress on steps taken pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1989 relating to the minimum wage rate of its employees. Expresses the sense of the House that the Committee on House Administration should make recommendations regarding the application of the Occupational Safety and Health Act to the House. Authorizes any employee of the House who has been aggrieved by a violation of the Fair Employment Practices Resolution , the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Fair Labor Standards Amendment of 1989, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 to petition for review by the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit of the final decision pursuant to the Fair Employment Practices Resolution. Expresses the sense of the House that the Rules of the House should be amended to address the issue of the source of payments by the House to satisfy a judgment against a Member who has been found guilty of a violation of one of such Acts. Gives employees of instrumentalities of the Congress who have been aggrieved by the violations of the following Acts the right to petition for judicial review: (1) the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, (2) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (3) the Civil Rights Act of 1991, and (4) the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 .
Growing Our Manufacturing Employment Act or the GoMe Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow certain employers with domestic production gross receipts in the current and preceding taxable year a manufacturer's jobs tax credit through 2009 for annual increases in wages paid to their employees and to employees eligible for benefits under the Trade Adjustment Act. (2) extend through 2012 the tax credit for increasing research expenses. And (3) set forth rules for the application of the economic substance doctrine.
This bill requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to carry out a grant program to enhance the nation's economic, environmental, and energy security by making awards to consortia for establishing and operating Energy Innovation Hubs to conduct and support multidisciplinary, collaborative research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of advanced energy technologies. Advanced energy technologies are innovative technologies or research, development, demonstration, and commercial application activities necessary to ensure the long-term, secure, and sustainable supply of energy critical elements. These elements have a high risk of a supply disruption and are critical to new, energy-related technologies in that a shortage of the element would significantly inhibit large-scale deployment of technologies that produce, transmit, store, or conserve energy. Examples of advanced energy technology include an innovative technology that: produces energy from renewable energy resources, produces nuclear energy, includes carbon capture and sequestration. Enables advanced vehicles, vehicle components, and related technologies that result in significant energy savings. Generates, transmits, distributes, utilizes, or stores energy more efficiently than conventional technologies. And enhances the energy independence and security of the United States by enabling improved or expanded supply and production of domestic energy resources. DOE must designate a unique advanced energy technology focus for each hub. Grants may not be used for constructing new buildings or facilities for hubs. Further, construction of new buildings or facilities may not be considered as part of the non-federal share of a hub cost-sharing agreement. Grants and non-federal cost share funds may be used for research or for the construction of a test bed or renovations to existing buildings or facilities for the purposes of research.
San Francisco Old Mint Commemorative Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue not more than 100,000 $5 gold coins and 500,000 $1 silver coins emblematic of the San Francisco Old Mint Building, its importance to California and US history, and its role in rebuilding San Francisco after the 1906 earthquake and fire. Sets forth: (1) coin specifications, (2) design requirements. And (3) guidelines for coin sales. Requires a surcharge of $35 for the $5 coin and of $10 for the $1 coin. Requires that all surcharges received by the Secretary from such coin sales be promptly paid to the San Francisco Museum and Historical Society to rehabilitate the Historic Old Mint in San Francisco as a city museum and an American Coin and Gold Rush Museum. Prohibits a surcharge with respect to the issuance of any coin under this Act during a calendar year if such issuance would result in the number of commemorative coin programs issued during such year to exceed the annual two commemorative coin program issuance limitation under specified law. Permits the Secretary of the Treasury to continue to issue, after December 31, 2005, numismatic items that contain 5-cent coins minted in the years 2004 and 2005.
Promoting Regional Energy Partnerships for Advancing Resilient Energy Systems Act or the PREPARE Act - Directs the Secretary of Energy (DOE) and the Secretary of the Interior to provide technical assistance to governmental entities, Indian tribes, and regional and nonprofit organizations to develop energy strategies that harmonize and promote national, regional, and state energy goals. Sets forth an awards program addressing the uniqueness of the energy challenges facing states and Indian tribes.
Declares that the Cape Fox Corporation of Saxman, Alaska, shall not be required to select or receive conveyance of specified unconveyed federal land. Allows Cape Fox to select, and requires the Secretary of the Interior to convey, on receiving written notice of the selection, the approximately 99 acres of the surface estate of Tongass National Forest land located outside the exterior selection boundary of Cape Fox. Requires the Secretary, on conveyance to Cape Fox of the surface estate to such land, to convey its subsurface estate to Sealaska Corporation.
Uphold Our Promise to Veterans Act - Repeals the provision of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that reduces the cost-of-living adjustment to the retirement pay of members of the Armed Forces under age 62. Suspendsnbsp, delivery of defense articles and servicesnbsp. To the Government of Egypt until democratic elections and a peaceful transfer of power have taken place. Prohibits assistancenbsp, to the Governments of Libya and Pakistan and tonbsp, any country where a USnbsp, diplomatic facilitynbsp. Has been attacked until the President certifies to Congress that such country has cooperated with investigations into such attack and have taken steps to prevent any future attack. Authorizes the sale of 8 of federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and 8 of National Forest System land. nbsp. Requires proceeds from the sale of such land to be used to reduce the annual federal budget deficit or the outstanding national debt. Terminates the authority for the sale of such lands when sales proceeds equal $3.5 million or at the end of FY2024, whichever occurs first.
Authorizes the Commandant of the Coast Guard to transfer to Presque Isle Township in Presque County, Michigan: (1) possession of the historic Fresnel Lens from the Presque Isle Light Station Lighthouse. And (2) any additional US personal property related to the Lens that the Commandant considers appropriate for conveyance. Requires the Township, as condition of the transfer of possession, to install the Lens in the Lighthouse as a Class I private aid to navigation. Instructs the Commandant, upon certification of the Commandant that the Township has installed the Lens and is able to operate the Lens and Lighthouse as a private aid to navigation, to convey to the Township all interest of the United States in and to the Lens. Allows the Commandant, if the Commandant conveys the Lens to the Township, to convey to the Township any personal property previously transferred to the Township under this Act.
Catching Operational Vulnerabilities by Ensuring Random Testing Act of 2008, or the COVERT Act of 2008 - Amends the Aviation and Transportation Security Act to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to make sure that advance notice of a covert test of a transportation security system is not provided to any individual before completion of the test, except: (1) that such information may be provided to certain federal, state, and local government employees, officers, and contractors. And (2) an individual conducting such a test may disclose his or her status if a security screener or other non-covered employee identifies such tester as a potential threat. Requires the head of each covert testing office to make sure that a covert testing person or group is accompanied by a cover team to monitor the test and confirm the identity of personnel involved. States, however, that a cover team is not required to be present during a test of the screening of persons or baggage at an aviation security checkpoint if the test: (1) is approved by the Federal Security Director for the airport. And (2) is administered under an aviation screening assessment program of the Department of Homeland Security. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to study and report to Congress on the impact of implementing covert testing procedures under this Act on the Department's efforts to improve transportation security.
Regulatory Capture Prevention Act of 2011 - Establishes the Office of Regulatory Integrity in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to be headed by an Administrator. Requires the Administrator to investigate and report on the influence of concentrated economic interests on federal agencies that results in: (1) agency action or inaction that fails to advance the mission of the agency or is otherwise inimical to the public interest. (2) regulation, licensing, adjudication, grants, or other agency action that favors a limited number of economic interests or is otherwise inimical to the public interest. (3) enforcement priorities that are not reasonably calculated to accomplish regulatory goals. And (4) a loss of confidence in the integrity of the regulatory process. Grants certain powers to the Administrator to carry out this Act, including access to agency records, subpoena power, direct and prompt access to the head of a relevant agency and access to information and assistance by such agency. Requires the Administrative Conference of the United States to provide the Administrator with written guidance on the principal means by which concentrated economic interests wield influence on federal agencies, the most salient threats to regulatory integrity arising from such influence, and effective measures to minimize regulatory capture.
Gold King Accountability and Compensation for Taxpayers or the Gold King ACT This bill allows a person to bring a compensation claim for allowable damages under the Federal Tort Claims Act if the claim is related to an injury resulting from the spill in Cement Creek from the Gold King Mine near Silverton, Colorado. The spill occurred on August 5, 2015. The bill prohibits certain exemptions and limitations on tort claims against the United States under the Act from applying to claims for injuries resulting from the spill. The EPA must receive, process, and pay under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 claims related to the Gold King Mine spill, including claims that otherwise would be ineligible under that Act or the national oil and hazardous substances pollution contingency plan if the response action carried out by the claimant is not inconsistent with the plan. The EPA must pay claims from unobligated balances in its accounts. The EPA must develop and implement a program for long-term water quality monitoring of the Animas River.
Directs the Secretary of Defense (DOD) (Secretary) to: (1) assess and develop a uniform definition of hazing, applicable to members of the Armed Forces (members), for inclusion in the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). And (2) submit such definition to Congress. Expresses the sense of Congress that such definition should cover, at a minimum, any situation in which a member suffers or is exposed to any cruelty, indignity, humiliation, hardship, harm, harassment, or oppression, or the deprivation or abridgment of any right, by another member. Requires the Secretary to develop and implement a comprehensive policy on the prevention of and response to hazing involving members. Directs the Secretary and the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to develop and implement a centralized, case-level database for the collection and maintenance of information regarding hazing, including incidents occurring at officer candidate schools, military academies and their preparatory schools, and basic training and professional schools for enlisted members. Requires such Secretaries to: (1) submit to Congress a plan to implement the database, and (2) complete implementation within 15 months after the enactment of this Act. Directs the Secretary to report to Congress: (1) a description of the current status of the Defense Incident-Based Reporting System, and (2) an explanation of how such System will relate to the database. Requires annual reports from each Secretary on the hazing incidents involving members. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to report to Congress on the policies to prevent hazing and the systems initiated to track incidents of hazing in each of the military departments.
Marine Navigation Safety Improvement Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish within the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund the Marine Navigation Safety Account. Funds such Account with transfers of specified amounts from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Directs that amounts in the Account be available to carry out the programs and activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the Department of Commerce relating to nautical charting and marine navigational safety programs as specified.
Teacher Tax Credit Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow elementary and secondary school (K-12) teachers a tax credit for 50 of their education expenses and their professional development expenses up to $300 in any taxable year.
Blueprint for Health Act of 2009 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to create the Blueprint for Health program to provide a national infrastructure for disease prevention, health promotion, and education about, and better management of, chronic conditions. Sets forth elements to be included in the Blueprint, including: (1) a strategic plan for designing an integrated medical home model of care, (2) chronic management programs. (3) incentives for the prevention of chronic diseases, including investments in health and sustainable local and regional food systems. And (4) a plan for the assessment of current health information technology initiatives. Requires the Secretary to convene an executive committee to advise the Secretary on the creation and implementation of the Blueprint for Health. Requires the Blueprint for Health to promote the effective, efficient, national use of health care information technology initiatives. Directs the Secretary to commission an assessment that examines the implementation of the health information technology provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Requires the Secretary to recommend to Congress legislation to implement the Blueprint for Health, including the establishment of programs designed to enhance primary care, promote multidisciplinary care coordination, prevent disease, improve quality, contain costs, more effectively manage chronic illness, and promote good health and prevention initiatives.
Infertility Research Centers Act of 2002 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to mandate grants or contracts for two centers for improving methods of preventing infertility. Requires each center to: (1) conduct clinical and other applied research, (2) develop training protocols and conduct training, (3) develop model continuing education programs. And (4) disseminate information to professionals. Allows funds to be used for: (1) stipends for training program enrollees. And (2) fees to clinical trial subjects. Establishes a program of agreements with health professionals to conduct infertility prevention research in return for the Government repaying the professionals' educational loans.
Southern Prairie Potholes National Wildlife Refuge Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish the approximately 23,500-acre Southern Prairie Potholes National Wildlife Refuge in Iowa. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire land and water within the boundaries of the Refuge from willing sellers. Lists as purposes of the Refuge to: (1) enhance opportunities for outdoor recreation. (2) provide for the restoration or preservation of Refuge land to native wetland and grassland habitats and landscapes. (3) provide for the restoration and conservation of native plants and animal communities, (4) provide critical travel and nesting habitat for migratory birds. (5) provide opportunities to private landowners to access assistance for the voluntary restoration of land for the benefit of fish and wildlife. And (6) facilitate the education of the public about nature, the environment, and the conservation of the natural resources. Directs the Secretary to: (1) administer all land, water, and interests therein acquired under this Act in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966. (2) ensure that hunting, fishing, wildlife observation and photography, and environmental education and interpretation are the priority public uses of the Refuge. And (3) encourage the use of volunteers and facilitate partnerships to promote public awareness, conservation, and priority uses of Refuge resources.
Rural Energy Communities Development Act of 2010 - Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to make water and waste facility loans to an eligible city, town, or incorporated area with a population of less than 20,000 that has, from January 1999 through December 2009, experienced energy sector job growth of not less than 20. Makes such loans available for: (1) essential community facilities, including water conservation, waste disposal facilities, transportation facilities, and affordable housing, (2) land acquisition, (3) staff. And (4) comprehensive community or housing plan updates. Prohibits the Secretary from making or entering into a loan commitment after September 30, 2012. Directs the Secretary to waive income limitations for FY2011-FY2016 for certain: (1) rural housing loans, including Doug Bereuter single-family housing loan guarantees, (2) low- and moderate-income rural housing loans, and (3) multifamily rural rental housing loan guarantees.
Border Crossing Deterrence Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to expand Operation Streamline to all 20 border sectors. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to: (1) revise and increase criminal penalties, including establishing mandatory minimum penalties, for an alien's entry into the United States at an improper time or place. And (2) revise criminal penalty and related provisions, and establish mandatory minimum sentences, respecting the reentry of an alien who has been removed from the United States. Amends the federal criminal code to establish a mandatory minimum criminal penalty of five years for an alien's destruction of US government-installed border barriers or infrastructure.
Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the US Geological Survey, to: (1) establish a National Biological Data Center to collect nonhuman biological data and make such data available for public use. And (2) contract with a small business to manage the Center. Sets forth duties of the Center, including the collection of nonhuman biological data from federal, public, private, and nonprofit entities and the development of partnerships with public and private entities, academic and scientific institutions to allow the Center to develop a digital network for the storage and retrieval of nonhuman biological data.
Encouraging Mortgage Modifications Act of 2008 - Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to set forth duties of mortgage servicers regarding certain loan modifications or workout plans that affect pooled qualified residential mortgages. Specifies among such duties the duty to: (1) determine if the net present value of the payments on the modified loan is likely to be greater than the anticipated net recovery that would result from foreclosure to all investors and parties having a direct or indirect interest in the pooled loans or securitization vehicle. And (2) act in the best interests of all such investors and parties, if the servicer agrees to or implements a qualified loan modification or workout plan for a qualified residential mortgage, or takes other reasonable loss mitigation actions, including accepting partial payments or short sale of the property, if such efforts are unsuccessful or infeasible. Shields from liability a servicer who enters into a qualified loan modification or workout plan if the servicer acts in a manner consistent with such duties.
Provides that, when any comparability payment becomes payable with respect to General Schedule employees within the District of Columbia, the annual rate of the salary of the Vice President and the pay for positions at each level of the Executive Schedule shall be adjusted by an amount equal to the percentage adjustment becoming so payable to such General Schedule employees. Increases the maximum limit on bonuses, awards, or other similar cash payments that may be paid in a calendar year to administrative law judges, certain senior-level employees, and individual senior executives. Increases: (1) the rate of basic pay payable for certain executive schedule positions. And (2) the highest rate of basic pay payable for the Senior Executive Service. Increases the maximum rates of basic pay allowable for circuit executives and certain personnel of the Administrative Office of the US Courts. Provides for the salary of the Director of such Office to be the same as the salary of a circuit judge.
Legally Binding Budget Act of 2015 This bill amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to replace the concurrent resolution on the budget required under current law with a legally binding joint resolution on the budget. At any time after the annual budget resolution has been enacted and before the end of the fiscal year, Congress and the President may enact a new budget resolution revising or reaffirming the most recently enacted budget resolution. The contents of a budget resolution are limited to material that is permitted by the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. For purposes of congressional budget enforcement and the rules of the House and the Senate, the budget resolution is enforceable upon the earlier of enactment or 15 days following presentment to the President.
Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council Advisory Committee Act This bill amends the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act to establish the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council Advisory Committee to advise the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture on wildlife and habitat conservation, hunting, and recreational shooting. The Advisory Committee must advise the departments on policies or programs related to: implementing Executive Order No. 13443: Facilitation of Hunting Heritage and Wildlife Conservation. Conserving and restoring wetlands, agricultural lands, grasslands, forest, and rangeland habitats. Promoting opportunities for and access to hunting and shooting sports on federal lands, recruiting and retaining new hunters and shooters. Increasing public awareness of the importance of wildlife conservation and the benefits of recreational hunting and shooting. And encouraging coordination among the public, the hunting and shooting sports community, wildlife conservation groups, states, tribes, and the federal government. The bill also specifies requirements for membership, meetings, pay and expenses, administrative support, and annual reports to Congress. The Advisory Committee is exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act. The bill abolishes the existing Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council, effective on the date of the first meeting of the Advisory Committee established by this bill.
Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit Improvement Act of 2009 - Establishes special rules for modification or disposition of a troubled asset under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) by real estate mortgage investment conduits (REMICs). Declares that: (1) such a modification or disposition shall not be treated as a prohibited transaction under the Internal Revenue Code. (2) an interest in the REMIC shall not fail to be treated as a regular interest solely because of such modification or disposition. And (3) any proceeds resulting from such modification or disposition shall be treated as amounts received under qualified mortgages. Specifies terms of the instruments governing the conduct of servicers or trustees with respect to qualified mortgages which shall terminates a REMIC. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish and implement a home mortgage loan relief program under TARP.
Joe Testaverde Adult Stem Cell Research Act of 2005 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to expand, intensify, and coordinate NIH activities regarding qualifying adult stem cell research. Defines qualifying adult stem cell to mean a human stem cell obtained from a human placenta, umbilical cord blood, an organ or tissue of a living or deceased human being who has been born, or an organ or tissue of unborn human offspring who died of natural causes . Requires the Director to award grants and contracts to plan, establish, improve, and provide basic operating support for no less than five centers of excellence regarding such research. Requires each center to conduct basic and clinical research, including investigations into the cause, diagnosis, early detection, prevention, control, and treatment of disease. Allows a center to: (1) make individuals aware of opportunities to participate as subjects in research. And (2) provide referrals for health and other services. Requires the Director to provide for: (1) a program under which samples of tissues and genetic materials that are of use in qualifying adult stem cell research are donated, collected, preserved, and made available for such research. And (2) means through which the public can obtain information on NIH programs and activities related to such research and through which the Director can receive comments from the public.
American Dream Tax Fairness Equity Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the three-year capital gains rate to 15 percent. Revises provisions regulating the computation of estate and gift taxes and credits, basing the taxes and credits on capital gains. Requires a trust, on the death of any individual who contributed property to the trust, to recognize gain or loss as if that property was sold for its fair market value on the death date. Provides for the treatment of contributions by partnerships or corporations.
Liquefied Natural Gas Safety and Security Act of 2005 - Amends the Natural Gas Act to prohibit the Federal Energy Regulating Commission (FERC) from authorizing an applicant to site, construct, expand, or operate a liquefied natural gas import facility, unless FERC has required the applicant to develop a cost-sharing plan in cooperation with the Commandant of the Coast Guard and State and local agencies that provide for the safety and security of the liquefied natural gas import facility and any vessels that serve it. Requires FERC to review annually all pending applications for the siting, construction, expansion, or operation of a liquefied natural gas import facility in a region and, after consultation with the pertinent States and the Commandant, determine: (1) whether liquefied natural gas import facilities are needed in a region. And (2) the number of liquefied natural gas import facilities so needed. Denies FERC authority to preempt a State permitting determination related to a liquefied natural gas import facility. Amends Federal law governing standards for liquefied natural gas pipeline facilities to direct the Secretary of Transportation to promulgate regulations establishing standards to promote the remote siting of liquefied natural gas pipeline facilities. Directs the Commandant to issue regulations establishing thermal and vapor dispersion exclusion zone requirements for vessels transporting liquefied natural gas.
Veteran Care Agreements Rule Enhancement Act or Veteran CARE Act This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), if unable to furnish hospital care, medical services, or extended care at VA facilities or under other authorized contracts or sharing agreements, to enter into a Veterans Care Agreement with an eligible provider to furnish such care and services. The VA shall review agreements exceeding $1 million annually at least once every two years. The VA shall establish a process for the certification of eligible providers. An eligible provider is: a physician or provider of services that has entered into a provider agreement under the Social Security Act. A provider of items and services receiving payments under a state Medicaid plan. An aging and disability resource center, an area agency on aging, or a center for independent living. Or any other health care provider the VA considers appropriate. The VA shall establish a system or systems to monitor the quality of care and services furnished to veterans, which shall be used in assessing whether to renew an agreement. An agreement may be made with a health care provider to provide veterans with nursing home care.
Desalination Energy Consumption Reduction Act of 2006 - Requires the Secretary of Energy to make specified incentive payments to the owners of qualified desalination facilities for up to ten years to encourage the utilization of the best available technology to reduce the consumption of electrical energy in the desalination process. Limits to 60 the amount of available funds to be provided to facilities that obtain source water directly from the sea, an estuary, or from in-bank extraction wells that are of seawater origin. Directs the Secretary, in awarding incentive payments, to give priority to projects that: (1) use innovative technologies to reduce its energy demand, (2) use renewable energy supplies, (3) provide regional water supply benefits. (4) provide a secure source of new water supplies for national defense activities. (5) reduce the threat of a water supply disruption as a result of a natural disaster or acts of terrorism, (6) use technologies that minimize the damage to marine life, or (7) provide significant water quality benefits.
Readjustment Counseling Service Amendments of 1993 - Includes a Readjustment Counseling Service (RCS) as part of the Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prohibits the Secretary of Veterans Affairs from altering or revising the organizational structure of RCS until he or she has notified specified congressional committees and 60 days have elapsed since such notification. Requires RCS budget information to be included annually in the President's budget submitted to the Congress. Outlines eligibility requirements for one of the Assistant Under Secretaries for Health in the Department, including at least three years of clinical experience and two years of administrative experience in RCS or other comparable mental health care counseling service. Makes such a qualified person the director of RCS. Directs the Secretary, upon the request of any veteran , to furnish counseling in readjusting to civilian life. Allows the provision of counseling to survivors of members of the armed forces who die while serving on active duty or from a condition incurred or aggravated by military service. Provides for the confidentiality of the records of any patient of RCS, permitting disclosure only in specific limited circumstances. Establishes in the Department the Advisory Committee on Veteran Readjustment Counseling to perform advisory services with respect to veterans' readjustment, taking into special account Vietnam era veterans. Requires specified reports from the Advisory Committee and the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees a plan for the expansion of the Vietnam Veteran Resource Center program as established under prior law. Directs the Secretary to carry out and report to the Congress on a pilot program for the provision of health-related services to eligible veterans at readjustment counseling centers.
Establishes within the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security the Special Office of the Inspector General for Natural Disaster Response and Reconstruction. Requires the Special Office to conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the treatment, handling, and expenditure of federal funds by any organization providing relief, assistance, or reconstruction related to Hurricane Katrina, and of the programs, operations, and contracts carried out utilizing such funds.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to set forth a special rule for the donation by a corporation, as a charitable deduction, of computer equipment and software, as well as related training, to elementary and secondary schools and to qualified organizations providing assistance to disabled individuals. Directs the Comptroller General to report concerning such deductions. Expresses the sense of the Congress that one of the main purposes of such enhanced charitable deduction is to encourage the donation of computer equipment and software to: (1) schools serving low income communities, (2) schools with budgets below applicable norms, and (3) schools with student test scores below the norm.
Military Eye Trauma Treatment Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Defense (Secretary) to establish within the Department of Defense (DOD) the Center of Excellence in Prevention, Diagnosis, Mitigation, Treatment, and Rehabilitation of Military Eye Injuries to: (1) develop and oversee the Military Eye Injury Registry for tracking the diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up for each case of eye injury incurred by a member of the Armed Forces while on active duty. And (2) ensure the electronic exchange of Registry information with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Requires the Secretary to: (1) include in the Registry records of members who incurred eye injuries while on active duty on or after September 11, 2001, but before the Registry's establishment. And (2) report to Congress on the Center's establishment. Directs the Secretary and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to conduct a cooperative study on neuro-optometric screening and diagnosis of members with traumatic brain injury (TBI) by military medical treatment facilities and VA medical centers for purposes of vision screening, diagnosis, rehabilitative management, and vision research on visual dysfunction related to TBI.
Graduate Opportunities in Higher Education Act of 2005 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to revise requirements and reauthorize appropriations for the following Graduate and Postsecondary Improvement Programs under title VII: (1) the Jacob K. Javits fellowship program. (2) the program of graduate assistance in areas of national need, (3) the Thurgood Marshall legal educational opportunity program, (4) the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education. And (5) demonstration projects to ensure that students with disabilities receive a quality higher education. Eliminates the Urban Community Service program and certain continuation awards.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Nicodemus National Historic Site Title II: New Bedford National Historic Landmark District Title I: Nicodemus National Historic Site - Establishes the Nicodemus National Historic Site in Nicodemus, Kansas. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) provide technical assistance for the preservation of historic structures, the maintenance of the cultural landscape, and local preservation planning. And (2) acquire certain real property in connection with the Site. Directs the Secretary to prepare and submit to specified congressional committees a general management plan for the Site. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: New Bedford National Historic Landmark District - Establishes the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park in New Bedford, Massachusetts, to be administered as a unit of the national park system. Requires expenditures to consist of: (1) one dollar of Federal funds for each four dollars of non-Federal funds for cooperative agreements entered into under this Act for preservation, development, interpretation, and use of the Park. And (2) non-Federal funds matching Federal funds for visitor and interpretive facilities . Requires the Secretary of the Interior to submit to specified congressional committees and to implement a general management plan for the Park. Authorizes appropriations. Limits the amount that may be appropriated for visitor and interpretive facilities and directional and visitor orientation signage. Prohibits the use of appropriations authorized under this Act for operation or maintenance of the Schooner Ernestina and limits the amount of Federal funds that may be used annually for interpretive and educational programs for the Schooner Ernestina pursuant to cooperative grants under this Act.
Agricultural Credit Expansion Act - Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to expand eligibility for Farm Service Agency operating loans, farm ownership loans, conservation loans, and emergency loans. Deems specified embedded entities eligible for farm ownership and operating loans. Deems specified operating-only entities eligible for farm ownership loans. Deems an entity that is an owner-operator or operator to meet the direct ownership loan requirement if it is owned in whole or in part by other entities and each individual that is an owner of the family farm involved has an ownership interest in each of the other entities.
Warren Weinstein Hostage Rescue Act This bill amends the National Security Act of 1947 to establish: (1) the Committee on Hostage Recovery within the National Security Council (NSC), and (2) the Interagency Fusion Cell on Hostage Recovery which shall execute the Committee's hostage retrieval strategies. The Committee's functions shall include: coordinating retrieval of US hostages among federal departments and agencies and among the United States and its allies, coordinating with the Interagency Fusion Cell on Hostage Recovery, developing hostage retrieval strategies and guidelines, developing information sharing policies and procedures. And developing a strategy to keep family members of US hostages informed, and policies that do not compromise US national security. It is the sense of Congress that the President should appoint a Special Advisor on Hostage Affairs who: (1) serves as the chair of the NSC Committee on Hostage Recovery, (2) has extensive foreign policy, counterterrorism, and hostage recovery experience, and. (3) serves as a primary liaison between the federal government and the family of a US hostage. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as authorizing the federal government to negotiate with a state sponsor of terrorism or a foreign terrorist organization.
Enhanced Emergency and Enforcement Authority Act - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to empower the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to reduce, eliminate, or prevent substantial disruption by an emergency of the ability of market participants to conduct securities activities or comply with obligations under the securities laws in a timely, orderly, or efficient manner. Amends the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Investment Company Act of 1940 to provide that, in any action or proceeding instituted by the SEC in federal district court for any judicial district, subpoenas issued by or on behalf of such court to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of documents or tangible things may be served in any other district .
Establishes the Board of Inquiry into the September 11, 2001, Terrorist Attacks. Directs the Board to study matters relating to the attacks on the World Trade Centers in New York and the Pentagon and the hijackings which preceded the attacks to determine what systemic problems in the collection, analysis, or dissemination of intelligence or in the intelligence, law enforcement, and other elements of the Government with responsibility for intelligence-related matters or counter-terrorism need to be corrected to prevent further attacks.
Veteran Employment Transition Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise the definition of qualified veteran for purposes of the work opportunity tax credit to mean recently discharged veterans and disadvantaged veterans. Defines recently discharged veteran to mean: (1) any individual who has served on active duty in the Armed Forces for more than 180 total days. (2) any individual who has been discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability. And (3) any member of the National Guard who has served for more than 180 total days in active duty, full-time National Guard duty, or duty in state status. Defines disadvantaged veteran as any veteran who is certified as being a member of a family receiving assistance under a supplemental nutrition assistance program and is entitled to compensation for a service-connected disability. Requires the Department of Defense (DOD) and the National Guard to inform military personnel who are discharged or released from active duty of the work opportunity tax credit and provide them with documentation relating to eligibility for and use of such credit.
Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Reauthorization Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize through FY2018 cancer research programs under the Caroline Pryce Walker Conquer Childhood Cancer Act of 2008. Replaces the current pediatric cancer research and awareness grant program carried out by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) with a comprehensive children's cancer biorepositories program. Authorizes the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to make awards to eligible applicants to build upon existing initiatives to collect biospecimens and clinical and demographic information for at least 90 of all children, adolescents, and young adults with cancer in Comprehensive Children's Cancer Biorepositories for the purpose of achieving a better understanding of the cause of such cancers and the effects of treatments. Permits award amounts to be used to: (1) acquire, preserve, and store high quality, donated biospecimens and associated clinical and demographic information on children, adolescents, and young adults diagnosed with cancer in the United States. (2) maintain a secure searchable database for scientists and qualified health care professionals to research such biospecimens and data. And (3) make available and distribute such biospecimens and data to researchers and professionals for peer-reviewed research. Revises the national childhood cancer registry grant program to require the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to award grants to state cancer registries to enhance and expand infrastructure to track the epidemiology of cancer in children, adolescents, and young adults. Requires a Comptroller General (GAO) report regarding the barriers to conducting pediatric studies of oncologic therapies in applications for new drugs or biological products under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, including recommendations to improve development and access to new therapies as well as assessments of: (1) the feasibility of requiring studies for a pediatric oncologic indication if the therapeutic target of a drug or biologic product for an adult oncologic indication is highly relevant to any pediatric cancer to which it could apply, and (2) the impact of altering the current exemption for orphan drug designations relating to rare diseases or conditions.
Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Fairness and Simplification Act - Limits state taxation of the wages or other remuneration of any employee who performs duties in more than one state to: (1) the state of the employee's residence. And (2) the state in which the employee is present and performing employment duties for more than 30 days. Exempts from the definition of employee for purposes of this Act a professional athlete or entertainer or certain public figures.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site, New York Title II: Other Matters Title I: Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site, New York - Designates the Lower East Side Tenement at 97 Orchard Street, New York, New York, as a national historic site and an affiliated site of the National Park System. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to coordinate the operation and interpretation of the Site with the Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Castle Clinton National Monuments. Provides that the Site shall continue to own, operate, and manage the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a cooperative agreement with the Museum to ensure the marking, interpretation, and preservation of the Site. Requires the Secretary to develop a general management plan for the Site that: (1) defines the Secretary's role and responsibility with regard to the interpretation and preservation of the Site. And (2) outlines how interpretation and programming for the Site shall be integrated and coordinated with the Statute of Liberty, Ellis Island, and Castle Clinton National Monuments to enhance the story of the Site and Monuments. Authorizes appropriations. Title II: Other Matters - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter into cooperative agreements to provide to Arizona and the town of Springerville, Arizona, technical assistance to interpret, operate, and maintain the Casa Malpais National Historical Landmark and financial assistance for planning, staff training, and development of the Landmark, but not other routine operations. Provides that such agreements may also: (1) grant the Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, access to public portions of the property covered by the agreements for the purpose of interpreting the Landmark. And (2) prohibit changes or alterations to the Landmark except by mutual agreement between the Secretary and the other parties to all such agreements. Authorizes appropriations. Amends Federal law to include in the land and water use management plan for the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, Michigan, provisions for appropriate improvements to Alger County Road H-58. Prohibits construction of a scenic shoreline drive in the Lakeshore.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on May 10, 2016. Improving Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum Women Act of 2016 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to extend support for residential substance abuse treatment programs for pregnant and postpartum women through FY2021. The Center for Substance Abuse Treatment must carry out a pilot program to make grants to state substance abuse agencies to support services for pregnant and postpartum women who have a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, including opioid use disorders . The Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality must fund an evaluation of the pilot program. As an offset, the bill reduces the authorization of appropriations for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention facilities for FY2017.
Brownfields Use Invigoration Land Development Act - Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to make grants to a small business, a local organization that represents small businesses, or a local redevelopment agency chartered, established, or otherwise sanctioned by a State or local government to participate in the redevelopment of remediated sites . Sets a maximum per-grant limit of $200,000. Increases to 90 percent of the amount of the outstanding financing the level of SBA participation in guaranteed loans made to small businesses on a deferred basis for small businesses located or locating on a remedial site. Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to: (1) authorize the SBA to provide assistance to State development companies for projects for the redevelopment of remediated sites. And (2) exempt from current outstanding leverage limits small business investment company investments in remediated sites.
Truth in Regulating Act of 1999 - Allows the Comptroller General, when a Federal agency develops or issues an economically significant rule, to review the rule at the request of a committee of either House of Congress. Defines economically significant rule to mean any proposed or final rule, including an interim or direct final rule, that may have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities. Requires the Comptroller General to submit a report on each rule reviewed, including an independent analysis of the costs and benefits, alternative approaches, impact on State and local governments, and differences from the agency's analyses. Grants the Comptroller General discretion to develop procedures for determining the priority and number of requests for review. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 through 2002. Provides for the pilot project established under this Act to continue for a three-year period, if specified appropriations are provided. Requires the Comptroller General to report to Congress on such project's effectiveness and on whether it should be authorized permanently.
Family Farmer Bankruptcy Clarification Act of 2013 - Amends chapter 12 of federal bankruptcy law with respect to discharge of governmental claims based upon the disposition of property used in a farming operation. Treats any unsecured claim of a governmental unit against the debtor or debtor's estate as an unsecured debt , if it results from the sale, transfer, exchange, or other disposition of any property used in the debtor's farming operation and it arises either: (1) before the petition in bankruptcy is filed, or (2) after such filing but before the debtor's discharge. Authorizes a governmental unit to file a proof for a claim that arises after the date on which the petition is filed. Requires such debt to be discharged in accordance with specified discharge procedures. States that, for purposes of applying procedures governing plan confirmation, discharge, and modification after plan confirmation, the amount that would be paid on the claim if the estate were liquidated under chapter 7 shall be the amount that would be paid by the estate in a chapter 7 case if the claim were an unsecured claim arising before the date on which the petition was filed and not entitled to priority payment status.
National Drought Policy Act of 1997 - Establishes the National Drought Policy Commission to conduct a thorough study and submit a specified report on national drought policy to the President and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight of the House together with its recommendations for such legislation and administrative actions as it considers appropriate. Terminates the Commission 90 days after the submission of such report.
Gold King Mine Spill Accountability Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of Justice (DOJ) to appoint a special investigator to investigate: (1) who was at fault for the discharge of contaminated water from the Gold King Mine north of Silverton, Colorado, into Cement Creek. (2) which individuals were responsible for the decisions that led to the spill. And (3) what downstream environmental effects were caused by the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) actions, or inactions, after the spill. The bill: (1) entitles individuals to receive compensation for a claim filed, or civil action brought, under the Federal Tort Claims Act relating to an injury resulting from the spill, and (2) establishes within the EPA the Office of Gold King Mine Spill Claims for processing claims of allowable damages resulting from the spill. The EPA may provide compensation for a claim in an amount greater than $25,000 without the prior approval of DOJ. The EPA must fund the implementation of the long-term monitoring program developed by the Long-Term Impact Review Team of New Mexico, for the water quality of the Animas and San Juan Rivers. The EPA may not finalize or work on any rules until all claims have been paid, except rules that are necessary to address an imminent threat to public health or safety, or other emergency.
Commission on Retirement Income Policy Act of 1993 - Establishes the Commission on Retirement Income Policy. Directs the Commission to study and report to the President and Congress on: (1) trends in retirement savings in the United States. (2) existing Federal incentives and programs to encourage and protect such savings. And (3) new Federal incentives and programs needed for such purpose. Requires the Commission to address specified issues and to include in its recommendation measures addressing specified needs of future retirees. Terminates the Commission within 90 days after submission of such report.
Public Health Equity Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to add a new title, title XXVII: Public Health Equity. Prohibits, under such title, acts with discriminatory effect as well as intentionally discriminatory acts that result in disproportionate exposure to a covered substance on the basis of race, color, or national origin. Defines a covered substance to include certain hazardous materials, substances, contaminants, or chemicals listed, identified, or defined in specified laws.
Gulf Coast Back to Business Act of 2007 - Authorizes appropriations for the Economic Development Administration of the Department of Commerce for grants to appropriate state government agencies in Louisiana and Mississippi for small businesses located in disaster areas caused by Hurricanes Katrina or Rita. Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to defer for a conditional period the payment of principal and interest on disaster loans made to small businesses affected by such hurricanes in the case of loans made before December 31, 2006. Prohibits an increased collateral requirement with respect to the deferred loans. Includes as a HUBZone any area in which the President has declared a major disaster as a result of such hurricanes. Amends the Small Business Competitive Demonstration Program Act of 1988 to make the small business competitive demonstration program inapplicable, for a conditional period, to any contract related to relief or reconstruction from such hurricanes.
Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area Act - Establishes the Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area in Arizona. Designates the Santa Cruz Valley Heritage Alliance, Inc. as the management entity for the Area. Requires the management entity to prepare and submit a management plan for the Area to the Secretary of the Interior for approval. Prohibits the management entity from using federal funds received under this Act to acquire real property. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical and financial assistance to the Area for the development and implementation of the approved management plan.
Truth in Video Game Rating Act - Requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prescribe rules that prohibit as an unfair and deceptive act or practice: (1) any rating organization from assigning a content rating to any video or computer game unless it has reviewed its playable content. And (2) any producer, seller, or distributor of such games from withholding or hiding any such content. Requires the FTC rules also to: (1) require any person submitting to a rating organization a video or computer game with hidden content to accompany it with the codes or methods necessary to access such hidden content. And (2) prohibit a rating organization from providing a content rating that grossly mischaracterizes the game content. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on the efficacy of the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) ratings system in assigning appropriate content ratings to video and computer games, and related questions.
This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to establish processes under which: (1) an entity seeking to develop patient experience data may submit initial research concepts for feedback. (2) the FDA may request or receive from such an entity draft guidance documents, data, and summaries and analyses of data. And (3) patient experience data may be considered in the risk-benefit assessment of a new drug. ldquo, Patient experience datardquo. Is data collected by patients or others that is intended to facilitate the FDA's risk-benefit assessments, including information about the impact of a disease or a therapy on patients' lives. The FDA must convene workshops and publish guidance on the patient experience data processes described above.
Civil Rights Amendments Act of 1993 - Amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of affectional or sexual orientation. Provides that this Act shall not be construed to permit a finding of discrimination based on statistical differences or the fashioning of any remedy requiring a quota.
Juvenile Justice Reform Act of 2008 - Amends the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to: (1) revise the definition of contact in such Act to include any sight or sound interaction between a juvenile in custody and an adult inmate. (2) expand eligibility for participation in grant programs under such Act to certain individuals and organizations with an interest in the juvenile justice system. (3) require state plans under such Act to provide for increased protections for juveniles in custody, provide for culturally and linguistically appropriate services to juveniles at risk, and establish policies and strategies to identify and reduce racial and ethnic disparities among youths in the juvenile justice system. (4) require the inclusion on state juvenile delinquency prevention advisory boards of individuals with experience and competence in addressing the needs of girls or in implementing gender responsive services. And (5) require the Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to assess and report on the effectiveness of treating juveniles as adults for purposes of criminal prosecutions. Amends the Incentive Grants for Local Delinquency Prevention Programs Act of 2002 to require the inclusion of gender specific services in the incentive grant program for juvenile delinquency prevention.
Outer Continental Shelf Royalty Reform and Enhancement Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to place limitations based on market price on the royalty relief granted under any lease for the production of oil or natural gas entered into on or after enactment of this Act. Declares that Congress reaffirms the authority of the Secretary to vary, based on the price of production from a lease, the suspension of royalties under any lease subject to specified requirements of the Outer Continental Shelf Deep Water Royalty Relief Act. Instructs the Secretary to offer to enter into written agreements to amend the payment responsibilities under each lease that: (1) authorizes the production of oil or natural gas on the Outer Continental Shelf, (2) provides for relief from the payment of royalties. And (3) does not provide for suspension of royalty relief based on an increase in the price of oil or natural gas, respectively, above specified thresholds. Authorizes the Secretary to increase royalty rates on leases for oil or natural gas production on the Outer Continental Shelf. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to deposit certain percentages of Outer Continental Shelf revenues for: (1) disbursement to Gulf producing states. (2) financial assistance to states for land and water conservation as well as outdoor recreation purposes. And (3) deficit reduction. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to guarantee the repayment of 100 of the outstanding principal of a bond issued by the state of Louisiana for coastal wetland restoration projects and related storm protection infrastructure.
Eleanor Smith Inclusive Home Design Act of 2013 - Requires newly constructed, federally assisted single family houses and town houses to include at least one level that complies with the Standards for Type C (Visitable) Units of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standards for Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities and any future revisions. Requires: (1) each applicant for federal financial assistance to submit compliance assurances to the relevant federal agency, and (2) each person who arranges for design or construction of a covered dwelling to submit architectural and construction plans for state or local approval. Prohibits federal financial assistance to a state or local government unit unless the recipient is taking certain enforcement actions with regard to covered dwellings. Permits: (1) private civil actions in a US district court or state court for violations of this Act, and (2) the Attorney General to commence civil actions or intervene in civil actions under this Act.
National Police Athletic League Youth Enrichment Act of 1999 - Directs the Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice, for each of FY 2000 through 2004, to award a grant to the Police Athletic League (PAL) for the purposes of establishing PAL chapters to serve public housing projects and other distressed areas and expanding existing chapters to serve additional youths. Requires PAL, in order to be eligible to receive a grant, to submit to the Assistant Attorney General an application which shall include: (1) a long-term strategy to establish 250 additional chapters and a detailed summary of those areas in which new chapters will be established, or in which existing chapters will be expanded to serve additional youths, during the next fiscal year. (2) a plan to ensure that there are a total of not less than 570 chapters in operation before January 1, 2003. (3) a certification that there will be appropriate coordination with those communities where new chapters will be located. And (4) an explanation of the manner in which new chapters will operate without additional, direct Federal financial assistance once assistance under this Act is discontinued. Directs the Assistant Attorney General to review, and take action on, an application within 120 days after the date of submission. Directs that amounts made available under a grant awarded under this Act be used by the PAL to provide funding for the establishment of PAL chapters serving public housing projects and other distressed areas, or the expansion of existing PAL chapters. Requires that each new or expanded PAL chapter assisted carry out not less than four programs during non-school hours, of which: (1) not less than two programs shall provide mentoring assistance, academic assistance, recreational and athletic activities, or technology training. And (2) any remaining programs shall provide drug, alcohol, and gang prevention activities, health and nutrition counseling, cultural and social programs, conflict resolution training, anger management, and peer pressure training, job skill preparation activities. Or Youth Police Athletic League Conferences or Youth Forums. Sets forth reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations. Sets aside specified percentages of grant sums for research and evaluation, technical assistance, and management and administration.
New England Wilderness Act of 2006 - Title I: New Hampshire - Designates specified federal lands managed by the United States Forest Service in the White Mountain National Forest area of New Hampshire as wilderness areas and as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System . Title II: Vermont - Subtitle A: Designation of Wilderness Areas - Designates specified federal lands managed by the Forest Service in Vermont as wilderness areas and National Wilderness Preservation System components . Requires the Forest Service to allow the continuance of the Appalachian National Scenic Trail, the Long Trail, the Catamount Trail, and the marking and maintenance of associated trails and trail structures consistent with the management direction established under the Green Mountain National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. Subtitle B: Moosalamoo National Recreation Area - Designates specified federal lands managed by the Forest Service in Vermont as the Moosalamoo National Recreation Area. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, to administer the Area in accordance with laws applicable to National Forest System units and the management direction established for the Moosalamoo Recreation and Education Management Area under such Management Plan.
Community Access to Emergency Defibrillation Act of 2001 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to States, political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations to develop and implement public access defibrillation programs by: (1) training and equipping local emergency medical services personnel to administer immediate care, including cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated external defibrillation (AED), to cardiac arrest victims. (2) purchasing AEDs, placing the defibrillators in public places where cardiac arrests are likely to occur, and training personnel in such places to administer CPR and AED to such victims. (3) setting procedures for proper maintenance and testing of such devices. (4) providing training to members of the public in CPR and AED. (5) integrating the emergency medical services system with the public access defibrillation programs. And (6) encouraging private companies to purchase AEDs and provide training for their employees to administer CPR and AED to cardiac arrest victims in their community. Directs the Secretary to award grants to States, Indian tribes, and tribal organizations to develop and implement innovative, comprehensive, community-based public access defibrillation demonstration projects that: (1) provide CPR and AED to cardiac arrest victims in unique settings, (2) provide training to community members in CPR and AED. And (3) maximize community access to AEDs. Directs the Secretary to award a grant to a health care organization to establish a national information clearinghouse that provides information to increase public access to defibrillation in schools.
Community Coordination And Resource Empowerment Act or the Community CARE Act This bill amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to extend funding through FY2019 for community health centers. Health centers that serve medically underserved populations may receive supplemental grant funds to increase access to primary care services.
Employee Changing Room Privacy Act - Prohibits employers from engaging in video or audio monitoring of employees in restroom facilities, dressing rooms, or other areas in which it is reasonable to expect employees to change clothing. Prohibits employers from using monitoring results for any purpose and requires employers to immediately destroy any violating recording. Prohibits retaliation. Allows video monitoring or audio monitoring by a law enforcement agency as part of a criminal investigation and with a warrant. Provides for enforcement by the Secretary of Labor. Allows private suits by aggrieved employees. Asserts that this Act does not alter state law or collective bargaining agreements except where inconsistent with this Act.
Handgun Trigger Safety Act of 2014 - Requires the Director of the National Institute of Justice to make one-year grants to qualified entities to develop technology for personalized handguns . Provides that a recipient shall use at least 70 of the grant amount to develop technology for personalized handguns and may use not more than 20 to develop technology for retrofitted personalized handguns and not more than 10 for administrative costs. Prohibits any person: (1) beginning two years after enactment of this Act, from manufacturing in the United States a handgun that is not a personalized handgun. Or (2) beginning three years after enactment of this Act, from distributing in commerce any handgun that is not a personalized handgun or a retrofitted personalized handgun. Exempts antique firearms and firearms distributed or sold to the Department of Defense (DOD). Provides for the enforcement of such prohibitions by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) and by the states. Requires a handgun manufacturer, upon request of the owner of a handgun manufactured in the United States that is not a personalized handgun or a retrofitted personalized handgun, to retrofit the handgun and return it to the owner within a reasonable period of time as established by the CPSC. Makes the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund available to the Attorney General for payments to reimburse handgun manufacturers for the costs of retrofitting handguns. Amends the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act to exclude from the definition of qualified product any handgun manufactured after two years after enactment of this Act that is not a personalized handgun or retrofitted personalized handgun.
Social Security Personal Savings Guarantee and Prosperity Act of 2004 - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to provide for the establishment of a voluntary, personal Social Security investment program under a new part B where a participating individual is able to invest in tax free personal accounts in a way that is similar to the way Federal employees invest in the Thrift Savings Program. Establishes in the Treasury the Social Security Personal Savings Fund, with personal Social Security savings accounts for deposit of the redirected Social Security contributions of participating individuals as mechanisms for crediting to such individuals amounts held in the Tier I Investment Fund, the Tier II Investment Fund, and Tier III Investment Options, also hereby established. Prescribes rules for personal Social Security savings annuity and other distributions. Establishes in the executive branch of the Government a Personal Social Security Savings Account Board to administer the new part B program. Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to provide for adjustment of primary insurance amounts in relation to deposits made to personal Social Security accounts. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to transfer to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund amounts equal to the recapture of corporate tax on account yields and of Government savings over baseline. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exempt the Social Security Personal Savings Fund and each Tier III Investment Option from income taxation. Subjects a personal Social Security savings account to taxes imposed on unrelated business income of charitable, etc. organizations. Excludes from a distributee's gross income any qualified distribution from amounts credited to a personal Social Security savings account from the Social Security Personal Savings Fund or held in a Tier III Investment Option. Creates in the Treasury the Self-Liquidating Social Security Transition Fund for the deposit of OASDI trust fund surplus for the preceding year. Amends SSA to provide for accounting for the OASDI program and the individual Social Security investment program. Amends SSA title VII to prescribe the budgetary treatment of the Social Security trust funds, the Social Security Personal Savings Fund, and taxes on self-employment income and FICA taxes.
Equity for Temporary Workers Act of 1999 - Prohibits employers from discriminating with respect to wages, hours, and other terms and conditions of employment against any temporary employee. Makes a temporary employee eligible to receive any benefit offered by an employer to other permanent employees after the temporary employee works for the employer for 1,000 hours during a 12-month period, regardless of whether placed by the employer, by a temporary help agency or staffing firm, or under a leasing arrangement by a third party. Requires equal pay for temporary employees. Prohibits employers with employees subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 from discriminating between employees on the basis of employment status by paying wages to temporary employees in the same establishment at a rate less than that at which the employer pays full-time employees for equal work on jobs the performance of which requires equal skill, effort, and responsibility, and which are performed under similar working conditions. Exempts from such prohibition any such payments made pursuant to: (1) a seniority system, (2) a merit system. (3) a system that measures earning by quantity or quality of production. Or (4) a differential based on any other factor other than employment status. Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to require employers to furnish each employee a place free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm. Sets forth enforcement provisions with respect to violations of this Act, including civil actions by employees and administrative and injunctive actions by the Secretary of Labor.
Drive Away from Ethanol Welfare Act of 1996 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the credit for alcohol used to produce any ether. Limits other tax incentives to produce alcohol for use as fuel. Reduces the credit for any alcohol which is ethanol.
HOPE VI Green Building and Technical Assistance Act of 2007 - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to prescribe green communities requirements for grant applicants regarding revitalization programs for severely distressed public housing. Prohibits the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development from making a grant unless the applicant's revitalization plan complies with both the mandatory and some of the nonmandatory green communities affordable housing design, development, and operation criteria as they appear on the national Green Communities program checklist. Adds to such criteria specified requirements for nonresidential structures covered by the plan. Directs the Secretary to establish verification procedures. Repeals current technical assistance and program oversight funding authority, including those for assistance in connection with establishment and operation of computer centers in public housing through the Neighborhoods Networks initiative. Replaces it with mandatory funding for additional grants to assist: (1) potential and actual revitalization grant applicants in developing and planning revitalization programs. Or (2) revitalization grant recipients in obtaining technical assistance in carrying out such programs.
General Services Administration Modernization Act - Establishes a Federal Acquisition Service in the General Services Administration (GSA) to be headed by a Commissioner who shall be responsible for carrying out functions related to the uses of the Acquisition Services Fund , including any functions that were carried out by the Federal Supply Service and the Federal Technology Service. Authorizes the Administrator to appoint Regional Executives in the Federal Acquisition Service to carry out such functions within that Service as the Administrator considers appropriate. Abolishes the General Supply Fund and the Information Technology Fund in the Treasury. Transfers remaining capital assets and balances in such Funds to the Acquisition Services Fund to be merged with, and be available for, the purposes of such Fund. Requires the Acquisition Services Fund to be credited with all reimbursements relating to personal property or services procured through the Fund, including: (1) the net proceeds of disposal of surplus personal property. And (2) receipts from carriers and others for loss of, or damage to, personal property. And (3) receipts from agencies charged fees pursuant to rates established by the Administrator. Requires the Administrator to determine cost and capital requirements of the Fund and develop a plan concerning such requirements in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer of GSA. Requires the Administrator, according to such plan, to establish rates to be charged agencies provided personal property and non-personal services through the Fund. Allows fees collected for recovering the costs of testing materials tendered for sale or lease to GSA or any procurement authority acting under GSA to be deposited in the Fund. Provides for: (1) the use of the Fund for personal services related to the provision of information technology. And (2) the Administrator to fix prices at levels sufficient to recover the cost of personal services employed directly in providing information technology. Sets requirements for the transfer of uncommitted balances in the Fund. Amends the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act to direct the head of each executive agency to establish policies and procedures under which the agency head may reemploy in an acquisition-related position an individual receiving an annuity from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund without discontinuing such annuity, if unique needs exist. Prohibits considering an individual so reemployed to be a federal employee for the purposes of the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). Requires the Administrator to submit annual reports to specified congressional committees on the use of such authority, including the number of employees reemployed under such authority. Terminates such authority on December 31, 2011. Amends federal law relating to donation of personal property through state agencies to provide for the transfer of historic light stations, including historic light stations conveyed under the National Historic Preservation Act, to such agencies for education or public health purposes to a nonprofit educational or public health institution or organization that is exempt from taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Credible Military Option to Counter Iran Act - States that it shall be the policy of the United States to take all necessary measures, including military action if required, to prevent Iran from threatening the United States, its allies, or Iran's neighbors with a nuclear weapon. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) US military exercises in the Persian Gulf emphasize US resolve in support of the above policy. And (2) the President should require the US military to develop a comprehensive plan to augment the presence of the US Fifth Fleet in the Middle East and to conduct military deployments, exercises, or other military readiness activities to underscore such policy. Directs the Secretary of Defense to prepare and submit to the congressional defense committees such a plan. Authorizes appropriations to the Department of Defense (DOD) for FY2012-FY2013 to enhance US military capabilities in the Central Command Area of responsibility , including for procurement, research and development, and operation and maintenance. Expresses the sense of Congress in support of specified action to assist in the defense of Israel, including joint missile defense systems, defense articles, intelligence, defense services, and additional weaponry and munitions for the forward-deployed US stockpile in Israel. Directs the President to report to Congress on the status of Israel's qualitative military edge in light of current trends and instability in the region. Directs the Secretary to develop and submit to Congress: (1) a plan to enhance the military capabilities of Persian Gulf allies to bolster their posture in relation to Iran, and (2) a plan to increase the strategic partnership with regional allies to provide US Armed Forces with the broadest set of geographic approaches to militarily access Iran.
United States Information Agency Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 - Authorizes appropriations for the US Information Agency (USIA) for FY 1994 and 1995. Amends the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 to authorize the USIA Director to: (1) carry out projects involving security construction and related improvements for USIA facilities not collocated with Department of State facilities abroad. And (2) contract with individuals for personal services abroad . Repeals a specified provision of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 which sets limitations on reductions of USIA employees abroad. Provides that nothing shall preclude USIA from keeping the US public informed of its operations, policies, or programs. Authorizes USIA to enter into contracts of up to seven years for circuit capacity to distribute radio and television programs. Permits USIA to receive funds from international organizations of which the United States is a member. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to authorize the issuance of up to 100 conditional immigrant visas per fiscal year to USIA employees. Makes 150 visas available to current employees upon enactment of this Act. Sets forth conditions for the removal of conditional status and for termination of such status. Confers special immigrant status on such individuals.
American Democracy Index Act of 2009 - Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require the Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to: (1) develop an American Democracy Index (ADI) to evaluate elections for federal office. (2) establish and operate a system to collect and measure election data for use in preparing the ADI. And (3) make the ADI with respect to each federal election available to the public, including through the Internet. Describes the ADI as an index designed to assist states in the administration of federal elections by presenting collected information on a state-by-state basis in a manner designed to demonstrate administration practices that: (1) ensure the right of individuals to vote. (2) improve the quality of voter access to polls and the quality of voter services. And (3) secure the accuracy and integrity of elections. Establishes an independent Board of Advisors the EAC shall consult in developing and refining the ADI and the data to be collected. Directs the EAC to: (1) conduct a pilot program for the 2010 federal elections under which it shall make one or more grants for election data collection in up to five states. And (2) based on such pilot program make one or more grants to collect 2012 federal election data in all states and prepare and publish the first ADI.
Requires the Secretary of Defense: (1) within 90 days after the enactment of this Act, to commence the redeployment of units and members of the Armed Forces deployed in Iraq as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom and defense contractors operating in Iraq and funded using amounts appropriated to the Department of Defense (DOD). And (2) to complete such redeployment within 180 days after its commencement. Prohibits the use of DOD funds to increase the number of US forces serving in Iraq in excess of the number of US forces serving in Iraq as of January 1, 2007, unless specifically authorized by Congress. Authorizes the Secretary to retain in Iraq US forces for: (1) providing security for embassy and diplomatic missions, (2) protecting American citizens, (3) serving in roles consistent with diplomatic positions. (4) engaging in targeted special actions of killing or capturing members of al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations with global reach. And (5) training and equipping members of the Iraqi Security Forces. Makes funds immediately available to plan and execute a redeployment of US forces and defense contractors from Iraq. Requires the President to transfer to the government of Iraq all right, title, and interest held by the United States in any military facility in Iraq that was constructed, repaired, or improved using amounts appropriated to DOD and occupied by US forces. Prohibits any funds from being used to further deploy US forces to Iraq after completion of the redeployment, unless specifically authorized by Congress. Prohibits anything in this Act from being construed to: (1) restrict the locations outside of Iraq to which US forces redeployed from Iraq may be transferred. (2) prohibit or otherwise restrict the use of funds available to DOD for the purpose of providing financial assistance or equipment to the Iraqi Security Forces or multinational forces providing security or training in Iraq at the request of the government of Iraq. (3) prohibit or otherwise restrict the use of funds available to any department or agency of the United States to carry out diplomatic, social, and economic reconstruction activities in Iraq at the request of the government of Iraq. And (4) prohibit or otherwise restrict the authority of the President to arrange asylum or other means of protection for Iraqi citizens who might be physically endangered by the redeployment of US forces from Iraq.
Central Oregon Jobs and Water Security Act - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to modify the boundary of the Crooked River, Oregon. Requires the developer for any hydropower development at Bowman Dam to analyze any impacts to the Outstanding Remarkable Values of the Wild and Scenic River that may be caused by such development and propose mitigation for such impacts as part of any license application submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Increases the minimum release that shall be maintained from the Prineville Reservoir for the benefit of downstream fish life. Requires 7 of the 17 cubic feet per second release to serve as mitigation for the city of Prineville groundwater pumping, as determined necessary for any given year by the city, including any shaping of the release of the up to 7 cubic feet per second to coincide with the city's groundwater pumping as may be required by the state of Oregon. Authorizes the Secretary of the Army to make applications to that state in conjunction with that city to protect these supplies instream. Directs the city to make payment to the Secretary for that portion of the minimum release that actually serves as mitigation under Oregon law. Authorizes the Secretary to contract exclusively with the city for additional amounts in the future at the city's request. Directs the Secretary, on a first fill priority basis, to store in and release from the Reservoir: (1) 68,273 acre feet of water annually to fulfill all 16 Bureau of Reclamation contracts existing as of January 1, 2011. (2) up to 2,740 acre feet of water annually to supply the McKay Creek lands. And (3) up to 10,000 acre feet of water annually to the North Unit Irrigation District, upon request, pursuant to a Temporary Water Service Contract. Authorizes any landowner within Ochoco Irrigation District, Oregon, to repay construction costs of project facilities allocated to that landowner's lands within that District. Requires the Secretary of the Interior, upon the request of a landowner who has repaid project construction costs, to provide certification of freedom from ownership and pricing limitations. Modifies the District's reclamation contracts, on approval of the District directors, to: (1) authorize the use of water for instream purposes in order for the District to engage in, or take advantage of, conserved water projects and temporary instream leasing as authorized by Oregon law. (2) include within the district boundary approximately 2,742 acres in the vicinity of McKay Creek, (3) classify approximately 685 of such acres as irrigable. And (4) provide the District with stored water from Prineville Reservoir for supplying such 685 acres, contingent on the transfer of existing appurtenant McKay Creek water rights to instream use and the state's issuance of water rights for the use of stored water.
National Spaceport Act - Establishes in the Department of Transportation a National Spaceport Office to administer a grant program of State-run spaceports. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide tax-exempt bond financing for spaceports. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the Office on October 1, 2000.
Access for Afghan Women Act - Directs the United States to undertake a variety of measures to guard and enhance the quality of life of Afghan women, including: (1) incorporating the perspectives and advice of Afghan women's organizations and leaders in US policymaking related to the governance of Afghanistan. (2) promoting the inclusion of a significant number of women in the Loya Jirga and future legislative bodies to ensure that women's human rights are included in any constitution for Afghanistan. (3) ensuring a significant portion of US assistance is channeled to local and US-based Afghan organizations, particularly Afghan women's organizations, and to high-quality comprehensive health care programs and education and training programs in Afghanistan. (4) training on the protection, rights, and the particular needs of women with respect to training for military and police forces in Afghanistan. And (5) ensuring that women refugees and those internally displaced in camps, urban areas, and villages are receiving food aid, health and medical services, and are free from sexual exploitation.
Improved Oversight by Financial Inspectors General Act of 2009 - Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) to revise the meaning of material loss to repeal its definition as an amount exceeding the greater of $25 million or 2 of the institution's total assets at the time the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) initiated assistance or was appointed receiver. Counts as a material loss any estimated loss in excess of $200 million occurring after March 31, 2009. Requires the Inspector General (IG) of each federal banking agency to report semiannually to the appropriate federal agency and to Congress regarding: (1) losses estimated to be incurred by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) with respect to insured depository institutions the agency supervises. (2) each loss that is not a material loss, the grounds for appointing the FDIC as receiver, and whether any unusual circumstances exist that might warrant an in-depth review of the loss. And (3) the results of the IG's determinations. Amends the Federal Credit Union Act (FCUA) to require the IG of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) to report to the NCUA Board about any material loss to the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF) with respect to an insured credit union regarding: (1) why the credit union's problems resulted in a material loss to the NCUSIF. And (2) how such loss may be prevented in the future. Revises the definition of material loss to the NCUSIF, currently an amount exceeding the sum of $10 million and 10 of the credit union's total assets at the time the NCUA Board initiated assistance or was appointed liquidating agent. Increases the $10 million to $25 million. Requires the IG of the NCUA Board to report semiannually to the Board and Congress regarding: (1) losses estimated to be incurred by the NCUSIF with respect to insured credit unions. (2) each loss that is not a material loss, the grounds for appointing the NCUA Board as liquidating agent for any federal or state credit union, and whether any unusual circumstances exist that might warrant an in-depth review of the loss. And (3) the results of the IG's determinations. Instructs the Comptroller General to: (1) review reports regarding material losses to the NCUSIF, and (2) make recommendations for improvements in the supervision of insured credit unions.
Requires each State to extend the parking privileges it grants to motor vehicles designated for transporting an individual with a disability that limits or impairs such individual's ability to walk to such vehicles from other States. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to withhold specified funds for noncompliance. Makes withheld funds available for other projects, subject to specified requirements.
Gifted and Talented Students Education Act of 2001 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to State educational agencies to assist local educational agencies to develop or expand gifted and talented education programs through one or more of the following activities: (1) professional development programs, (2) technical assistance, (3) innovative approaches and curricula, (4) emerging technologies, including distance learning. And (5) direct educational services and materials, which may include compacted, modified, or adapted curricula, acceleration, independent study, and dual enrollment.
Recruit and Reward Future Math and Science Teachers of America Act of 1998 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish a pilot program for recruitment and training of future secondary school mathematics and science teachers. Makes available 500 scholarship grants and stipends to outstanding students enrolled in nationally accredited teacher training graduate programs who are committed to pursuing such careers in secondary school mathematics and science teaching. Authorized appropriations. Designates funds under this Act as National Math and Science Teacher Scholarships. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award funds for such scholarships on a competitive basis to qualifying higher education institutions with graduate programs in teacher training. Limits the amount of such funds in any academic year which may be awarded to any individual higher education institution. Requires such institutions to: (1) meet nationally accredited teacher training graduate program standards. Or (2) demonstrate to the Secretary that at least 90 percent of the graduates of the graduate teacher training program take, and on their first attempt pass, the State teacher qualification assessments for new teachers. Sets forth eligibility requirements for individual scholarships. Limits the scholarship amount per student to $10,000 per academic year. Requires scholarship recipients to agree to teach in an urban or rural public secondary school for at least three full academic years, or repay the pro rata amount of awards received, plus interest, for any failure to fulfill such obligation. Sets forth exceptions to such repayment requirements.
Disaster Savings and Resilient Construction Act of 2012 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a business-related tax credit for the cost of constructing commercial and residential buildings that comply with resilient construction requirements in a federally-declared major disaster area. Defines resilient construction requirements as requirements that ensure that such buildings: (1) can resist hazards brought on by a major disaster and can continue to provide their primary functions after a major disaster, (2) can reduce the magnitude or duration of a disruptive event, and (3) have the absorptive capacity, adaptive capacity, and recoverability to withstand a potentially disruptive event. Terminates such credit for any any property for which a certificate of occupancy is issued after December 31, 2015.
Provides that, when any comparability payment becomes payable with respect to General Schedule employees within the District of Columbia, the annual rate of pay for positions at each level of the Executive Schedule shall be adjusted by an amount equal to the percentage adjustment payable to such General Schedule employees. Revises the rate of basic pay for the Vice Chairman and other members of the Contract Appeals Board. Adjusts such pay rate after each adjustment under the General Schedule. Increases the maximum limit on bonuses, awards, or other similar cash payments that may be paid in a calendar year to contract appeals board members, certain senior-level employees, and individual senior executives. Increases: (1) the rate of basic pay payable for certain executive schedule positions. And (2) the highest rate of basic pay payable for the Senior Executive Service. Increases the maximum rates of basic pay allowable for circuit executives and certain personnel of the Administrative Office of the US Courts. Provides for the salary of the Director of such Office to be the same as the salary of a circuit judge.
Requires the FTC to treat any telecommunications billing practice or rate plan determined to be intentionally misleading as an unfair business practice for purposes of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Requires the FCC, upon a finding that any holder of an FCC license has repeatedly and intentionally engaged in a telephone billing practice or utilized a rate plan that is misleading, to treat such holder as acting against public interest for purposes of the Communications Act of 1934. Requires each carrier to display on the first page of each customer bill: (1) the average per-minute charge of telecommunications services for the billing period. And (2) the percentage of the total number of telephone calls of such customer that took place on a weekday, weekend, daytime, or nighttime, and the percentage that were billed to a calling card. Requires customer bills to include: (1) an accurate name and description of any covered charge and the recipient of monies collected through such charge. (2) a statement of whether each such charge is required by law or by a governmental entity under its discretionary authority. And (3) an explanation of any reduction in charges or fees. Directs each carrier required to contribute to universal services during the previous year to report to the FCC on their total contributions during the previous year and the total receipts from customers to recover such contributions. Directs the FCC to review such reports to determine whether such amounts are equal and, if not, to require such carrier to deposit an equal amount.
United States Cruise Vessel Development Act of 1994 - Amends Federal shipping law to revise provisions prohibiting the use of foreign vessels to transport passengers between places in the United States to authorize the transport of passengers in coastwise trade only if the vessel: (1) is owned by a US citizen, or a US corporation, partnership, or association, (2) meets certain requirements under the Merchant Marine Act. And (3) is at least five net tons and is issued a certificate of documentation with a coastwise endorsement. Exempts from this prohibition any cruise vessel: (1) demised to a US person for a term of at least 18 months. Or (2) reflagged as a US vessel after enactment of this Act, if the owner or charterer contracts for US construction of another cruise vessel with at least 80 percent of the existing vessel's total berth or stateroom capacity. Prohibits any person owning or chartering a cruise vessel thus exempted from operating any vessel between: (1) any two ports served by another cruise vessel transporting passengers in the coastwise trade on the date the Secretary of Transportation issues the coastwise endorsement. Or (2) any of the Hawaiian islands. Sets forth civil and forfeiture penalties for violations of this Act. Requires the Secretary of Transportation (Secretary) to issue a certificate of inspection to vessels that: (1) meet the standards and conditions for the issuance of a control verification certificate to a foreign vessel embarking passengers in the United States, (2) a coastwise endorsement is issued. And (3) are authorized to engage in coastwise trade as vessels reflagged under the requirements of this Act. Amends the Shipping Act, 1916 to declare that, for purposes of vessel documentation in the coastwise trade, the controlling interest in a partnership or association that owns such a vessel shall not be deemed to be a US citizen unless a majority interest in the partnership or association is owned by US citizens free from any trust or fiduciary obligation in favor of a non-US citizen. Prohibits the Secretary of the Interior from permitting a person to operate a vessel in any unit of the National Park System except in accordance with specified priorities, the first of which goes to any person: (1) operating a US-flag vessel whose home port is in the United States. Or (2) holding rights to provide visitor services under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. Requires the Secretary to revoke or renew permission for the operation of any foreign-documented vessel that does not hold such Alaskan visitor rights if: (1) a person requests permission to operate a US-flag vessel in the same unit. And (2) permission may not be granted because of a limit on the number of such permits.
Women and Alcohol Research Equity Act of 1996 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require that $44 million of the first $191 million appropriated to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism be obligated for research on alcohol abuse and alcoholism among women. Authorizes appropriations for such research regarding women.
Guaranteed Health Coverage for Pre-Existing Conditions Act of 2014 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to maintain, upon repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the health care provisions of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the requirements that: (1) health insurance includes coverage for preexisting conditions. And (2) health insurers accept every employer and every individual in a group that applies for coverage in the group market and every individual that applies for coverage in the individual market.
Hospital Readmissions Program Accuracy and Accountability Act of 2014 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act, with respect to the Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program, to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), in determining a hospital's excess readmission ratio for purposes of making payments for discharges starting in FY2016, to risk adjust readmissions to account for patient socioeconomic status.
Great Lakes Pipeline Safety Act of 2016 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to conduct a study to determine the economic and environmental risks of oil or hazardous liquids spills or leaks in the Straits of Mackinac that a failure of onshore, underwater pipeline facilities within the straits would pose to the Great Lakes. In addition, DOT must evaluate the condition and structural integrity of the facilities. DOT shall terminate operations of a facility upon a determination, based on such studies, that risk of hazard to life, property, or the environment warrants termination.
Federal Railroad Safety Authorization Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 to authorize appropriations for FY 1995 through 1998 for railroad research and development and general safety operations. Amends the Hours of Service Act to authorize railroads, and labor organizations representing railroad employees, to jointly petition the Secretary of Transportation (Secretary) for approval of a waiver of limitations on hours of service with respect to such employees in order to establish one or more pilot projects to demonstrate the possible benefits of implementing alternatives to such limitations, including those concerning maximum on-duty and minimum off-duty periods. Authorizes the Secretary to waive compliance with such limitations for up to two years if it is in the public interest and is consistent with railroad safety. Requires the Secretary to report biennially to the President and the Congress on the administration of Federal railroad safety rules and standards.
Planning Actively for Cancer Treatment (PACT) Act of 2013 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage of cancer care planning and coordination services.
FHA Multifamily Housing Loan Limit Improvement Act - Amends the National Housing Act to increase and index to the Bureau of the Census' annual construction cost index multifamily project mortgage loan limits for: (1) rental housing, (2) cooperative housing, (3) rehabilitation and neighborhood conservation housing, (4) housing for moderate income and displaced families, (5) housing for the elderly, and (6) condominiums. Increases loan limits in high-cost areas.
Transfers administrative jurisdiction over the surface estate of specified public lands at Yakima Training Center, Washington, from the Secretary to the Secretary of the Army. Sets forth similar withdrawal and use requirements.
Open Fuel Standard Act of 2009 or the OFS Act - Requires each light-duty automobile manufacturer's annual covered inventory to comprise at least: (1) 50 fuel choice-enabling automobiles in years 2012-2014. And (2) 80 fuel choice-enabling automobiles in 2015, and in each subsequent year. Defines fuel choice-enabling automobile as: (1) a flexible fuel automobile capable of operating on gasoline, E85, and M85. Or (2) an automobile capable of operating on biodiesel fuel. Authorizes a manufacturer to request an exemption from such requirement from the Secretary of Transportation.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish grant programs to provide: (1) signing bonuses for middle or secondary school mathematics or science teachers who agree to teach in public schools in high-need areas for four years. And (2) mentor teachers to train, support, and mentor novice teachers of mathematics or science in public elementary or secondary schools.
Help Organ Procurement Expand Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a $2,500 tax credit for qualified organ donations.
United States Buffalo Nickel Act of 1997 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue five-cent coins based on the original five-cent coin designed by James Earle Fraser and minted from 1913 to 1938. Mandates that: (1) each coin have a profile representation of a Native American on the obverse side, and a representation of a buffalo on the reverse side. (2) coin design shall be selected by the Secretary after consultation with specified congressional committees and reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee. And (3) a one-dollar sales surcharge shall be imposed per coin and distributed to the National Museum of the American Indian to commemorate its tenth anniversary and to supplement its endowment and educational outreach funds.
Brownfields Reauthorization Act of 2016 This bill amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA)to revise and reauthorize brownfields revitalization and state response program funding through FY2021. The Environmental Protection Agency must establish a program to provide multipurpose grants to carry out inventory, characterization, assessment, planning, or remediation activities at one or more brownfield sites in a proposed area. Certain nonprofit organizations and community development entities are made eligible for brownfields revitalization funding. Grant or loan recipients may use up to 8 of brownfields revitalization funding for administrative costs. Additionally, the bill revises the brownfield site characterization and assessment grant program to allow a governmental entity to receive a grant for property acquired prior to January 11, 2002, even if the entity does not qualify as a bona fide prospective purchaser under CERCLA.
National Center for Excellence in Research and Development Act of 1994 - Authorizes appropriations to maintain the readiness capability of the underground Nevada Test Site. Establishes within the Department of Energy a National Test and Demonstration Center of Excellence to be located at such Site. Directs the Center to carry out activities related to: (1) alternative and renewable energy sources, (2) nuclear stockpile stewardship, (3) disarmament and demilitarization, (4) nonproliferation, and (5) environmental technologies. Authorizes appropriations.
Department of Homeland Security Morale, Recognition, Learning and Engagement Act of 2017 or the DHS MORALE Act This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to: develop and implement strategic workforce planning policies with respect to leader development and employee engagement, develop and implement policies that are informed by employee feedback. Require that the career path framework and leader development opportunities are informed by an assessment of the learning and developmental needs of employees across DHS and appropriate workforce planning initiatives. Maintain a catalogue of available employee development opportunities, departmental leadership development programs, interagency development programs, and other rotational programs. And ensure that employee discipline and adverse action programs comply with all pertinent laws, regulations, and federal guidance and ensure due process. The chief may designate a DHS employee to serve as Chief Learning and Engagement Officer. DHS's report to Congress on fulfilling its workforce strategies shall include information on: (1) employee development opportunities, participation and attrition rates, and impacts on retention and employee satisfaction, (2) progress of strategic workforce planning efforts. And (3) activities of the employee engagement steering committee. The bill establishes an employee engagement steering committee, including representatives from operational components, headquarters, field personnel, and employee labor organizations, to: identify factors that have a negative impact on employee engagement, morale, and communications within DHS. Identify, develop, and distribute initiatives and best practices to improve employee engagement, morale, and communications within DHS. Monitor efforts of each DHS component to address employee engagement, morale, and communications based on employee feedback provided through annual employee surveys, questionnaires, and other communications. Advise DHS on efforts to improve employee engagement, morale, and communications within specific DHS components and across DHS. And conduct regular meetings and report, at least quarterly, to the Under Secretary for Management, the head of each component, and the DHS Secretary on DHS-wide efforts to improve employee engagement, morale, and communications. The chief shall: (1) issue a DHS-wide employee engagement action plan to execute strategies to improve employee engagement, morale, and communications within DHS. And (2) require each component to develop and implement a component-specific plan to advance such action plan, monitor progress, and provide quarterly reports on progress. The preceding provisions terminate five years after enactment. DHS may establish an annual employee award program to recognize DHS employees for significant contributions to the achievement of its goals and missions. The Government Accountability Office (GAO) shall utilize a report by the Inspector General General of DHS, if available, and investigate whether the application of discipline and adverse actions are administered in an equitable and consistent manner that results in the same or substantially similar disciplinary outcomes across DHS for misconduct by a non-supervisory or a supervisor employee. DHS's Under Secretary for Management shall: (1) review the findings and recommendations of such investigation and implement a plan to correct any relevant deficiencies identified by the GAO, and (2) direct the steering committee to review such plan to inform committee activities and action plans authorized under this bill.
Federal Prosecutors Retirement Benefit Equity Act of 2001 - Amends Federal civil service law to include Federal prosecutors within the definition of law enforcement officer (LEO). Extends LEO benefits under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees' Retirement System to Federal prosecutors, including Assistant United States Attorneys (AUSAs), and such other attorneys in the Department of Justice (DOJ) as may be designated by the Attorney General. Exempts Federal prosecutors from mandatory retirement provisions for LEOs under the civil service laws. Requires DOJ to provide notice to incumbent Federal prosecutors of their rights under this Act. Allows incumbents to opt out of the LEO retirement program. Sets forth provisions governing the crediting of prior service by incumbents. Provides for make-up contributions for prior service of incumbents to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund. Gives incumbents the option of either contributing to their own share of any make-up contributions or receiving a proportionally lesser retirement benefit. Allows the Government to contribute its share of any make-up contribution ratably over a ten-year period.
Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require certain cable system operators, with channel capacity for public, educational, or governmental (PEG) use that is designated by a franchising authority under existing code provisions or required to be provided under this Act, to: (1) carry PEG-use signals to subscribers without material degradation and without altering or removing content or data. (2) provide viewable signals to every cable subscriber without additional service or equipment charges. And (3) provide to the appropriate local government subdivision (LGS), free of charge, any transmission services and the use of any transmission facilities necessary to meet such requirements. Requires a cable operator in a state adopting applicable franchising legislation that becomes effective after May 31, 2005, to: (1) owe any LGS in which the operator provides cable service during a year beginning after enactment of this Act an LGS-determined amount for such year, within specified limits, notwithstanding requirements relating to support for cable system PEG use in such state legislation. And (2) provide a certain number of channels for PEG use in an LGS, notwithstanding requirements relating to the number of PEG-use cable channels in such state legislation. Defines quot, local government subdivisionquot. As a franchising authority deriving its power to grant a franchise from state or local law or an entity considered such a franchising authority as of the day before the effective date of such state legislation relating to support. Specifies forms of support as cash payments, in-kind support, and free services provided by the cable system operator, or its predecessor, to the LGS for the cable system's PEG use. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) LGS or state enforcement, and (2) nonbinding mediation and court proceedings concerning disputed support amounts. Revises the definition of quot, franchise feequot. Including by striking a provision prohibiting such a fee from including capital costs that the franchise requires the cable operator to incur for PEG access facilities.
Federal Probation System Reform Act - Amends the federal criminal code to require the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to ensure that an appropriate probation or pretrial services officer supervises a person convicted of a federal offense who has been sentenced to probation, placed on probation, or placed on supervised release, or a person accused of such an offense who has been released pending trial, sentence, or appeal, and who is required to wear an electronic monitoring device as a condition of such probation or release, including by: (1) conducting a daily review of any data produced by such device. And (2) conducting an investigation immediately following an electronic monitoring system alert that the Director determines requires investigation. Prohibits, and sets penalties for, intentionally disabling such a device or allowing another person to disable such device. Establishes within the United States Probation and Pretrial Services System the Office of the Inspector General for Probation and Pretrial Services, which shall: (1) conduct investigations of alleged misconduct, (2) conduct and supervise audits and investigations, (3) prevent and detect waste, fraud, and abuse. (4) recommend changes in laws or regulations governing probation and pretrial services. And (5) report expeditiously to the Attorney General whenever there are reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of federal criminal law. Provides whistleblower protection for an employee who provides information to or otherwise assists the Inspector General in an investigation of a possible violation of federal law or misconduct by a pretrial services or probation officer.
Autism Understanding and Training in School Methodologies for Educators Act of 2012 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to carry out a demonstration program to award five-year grants to eligible local education agencies for the following purposes in schools for children in grades pre-kindergarten through 12: (1) providing training to teachers, paraprofessionals, and other staff on effective ways to teach, communicate, recognize, support, and interact with children with autism spectrum disorders in the classroom. (2) providing technical assistance consisting of consultation on the type of training needed, hands-on opportunities to practice and perform newly acquired skills and methodologies, and post-training support to ensure accuracy of implementation in the classroom. (3) executing strategies for recruiting and retaining skilled personnel participating in the education of children with such disorders. And (4) implementing a program of parental support and involvement in the education of students with such disorders.
Commission on Probabilistic Methods Act - Directs the Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration of the Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish the Commission on Probabilistic Methods. Requires the Commission to identify and assess the extent to which the use of probabilistic methods can help DOT in administering its transportation programs.
E-Mail User Protection Act - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to make it unlawful for any person to: (1) initiate the transmission of an unsolicited bulk electronic mail message that contains a false or misappropriated name of the sender, return address, or name and phone number of a telephone contact person. (2) initiate such a message to an interactive computer service with the knowledge that such message falsifies identifying information. (3) initiate such a message and fail to comply with the recipient's request to not receive such messages. Or (4) use, create, sell, or distribute any computer software that is primarily designed to create false identifier information. Provides civil fines and criminal sanctions for such violations. Authorizes enforcement through the Federal Trade Commission as an unfair or deceptive act or practice. Provides appropriate relief for both interactive computer services and recipients.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a 20 percent tax on the taxable earned income of every individual. Bases such amount on the standard deduction. Increases the basic standard deduction and includes an additional standard deduction , with inflation adjustments. Limits charitable contributions to $2,500 . Limits the deduction for interest paid on a home mortgage to the amount of acquisition indebtedness, with limitations. Replaces the current tax on corporations with a tax on every person engaged in a business activity equal to 20 percent of the business taxable income of such person. Makes the person engaged in the business activity liable for the tax.
Taxpayer Choice Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) repeal the alternative minimum tax on individual taxpayers after 2006. And (2) allow taxpayers to elect an alternative income tax system. Makes permanent the capital gains and dividends rate reductions enacted by the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001.
Infant and Toddler Care Improvement Act - Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to make grants to enable eligible states to improve the quality of care for infants and toddlers, especially those from low-income families. Authorizes the use of grant funds to: (1) make grants to organizations with pertinent expertise to establish and operate staffed family child care networks or systems that offer family child care providers technical assistance, training, administrative support, or direct services. (2) support a statewide network of infant and toddler care specialists. And (3) support initiatives to improve the quality of the provider workforce. Allows the use of such funds also to: (1) develop infant and toddler components for the State's Quality Rating and Improvement System or a similar rating system, child care licensing regulations, or voluntary early learning guidelines. (2) improve the ability of parents to obtain information about high-quality infant and toddler care. Or (3) assist eligible infant and toddler care providers seeking to increase their ranking on the State's Quality Rating and Improvement System or similar rating system, meet performance standards applicable to an Early Head Start agency, or become accredited by a national accrediting body.
Super Pollutants Act of 2014 - Establishes requirements for agencies to evaluate, mitigate, reduce, and report on the following short-lived climate pollutant emissions : black carbon , methane, and high global warming potential hydrofluorocarbons . Requires the President to establish the Interagency Task Force on Short-Lived Climate Pollutant Mitigation to address these pollutants through an action plan. Directs the Department of State to develop a comprehensive plan to reduce black carbon emissions from international shipping. Requires the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to prioritize black carbon mitigation activities as part of aid distribution activities. Requires the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to evaluate the availability of high-GWP HFC alternatives. Amends the Clean Air Act to prohibit the manufacture of any uncharged hydrochlorofluorocarbon-22 air-conditioning condensing equipment for residential use. Requires the EPA to determine whether the sale of R-134a automotive air-conditioning recharge kits to consumers represents an environmentally significant source of high-GWP HFC emissions. Requires the State Department, the DOE, the EPA, and the Department of Commerce to provide other countries with technical guidance on containing emissions from gas drilling, landfills, coal mining, and agriculture. Directs the EPA to establish an inspection and maintenance program for equipment that has high leak rates of methane gas.
Buy America 2.0 Act This bill prohibits federal funding of a transportation or infrastructure project unless the steel, iron, and manufactured goods used for the project are produced in the United States, except where: (1) inconsistent with the public interest. (2) iron, steel, and the relevant manufactured goods are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of a satisfactory quality. Or (3) inclusion of iron, steel, and manufactured goods produced in the United States will increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25. The bill revises and expands Buy America provisions pertaining to public transportation, rail loan and loan guarantees, and aviation. The bill amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to apply in all fiscal years the prohibition on the use of funds for a public water system project that does not use iron and steel products produced in the United States.
Vision Zero Act of 2017 This bill authorizes the Department of Transportation to award grants to a city, town, township, borough, county, parish, district, village, or other political subdivision of a state to develop a Vision Zero plan to eliminate transportation-related fatalities and serious injuries in its jurisdiction within a specified timeframe, not to exceed 20 years. The Department may award grants to up to five entities serving such jurisdictions, with at least 25 of grant funds going to entities that serve a jurisdiction with a population of under 200,000. The federal share of projects costs shall not exceed 80.
Amends the San Luis Rey Indian Water Rights Settlement Act to direct the Secretary of the Interior, as an alternative by which to provide a supplemental water supply for the benefit of certain Mission Indian Bands in San Diego County, California, and the City of Escondido, California, the Escondido Mutual Water Company, and the Vista Irrigation District to construct that portion of the All-American Canal Lining that is necessary to conserve 16,000 acre-feet of water per year and arrange to deliver such water to the Bands and such local entities by exchange or through contract with the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California and other parties with conveyance facilities. Requires the right to such water to be held in perpetuity by the United States in trust for the San Luis Rey Indian Water Authority subject to such Act and the settlement agreement governing the use and disposition of supplemental water. Authorizes appropriations for such construction, but prohibits Federal funding for operating, maintenance, or replacement costs. Directs the Secretary to determine the impact of such works constructed on the cost of operation and maintenance and the existing regulating and storage capacity of the All-American Canal and its Coachella Branch. Requires, if the works result in any added operation and maintenance costs which exceed the benefits derived from increasing the regulating and storage capacity of the canals to the Imperial Irrigation District or the Coachella Valley Water District, the Indian Water Authority and the local entities shall reimburse the agency which experiences such additional costs on an annual basis pursuant to the Secretary's determination. States that the right to 16,000 acre-feet of water per year obtained by such construction is subject to such works being maintained so as to continue to conserve 16,000 acre-feet of water per year as compared to the situation that existed prior to the construction. Provides for the Secretary to determine the amount of water so conserved on an ongoing basis and to allow only such water as has actually been conserved to be delivered to the Indian Water Authority and the local entities.
Enhancing Nutrition in Medical Education Act of 2004 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to allow the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to schools of medicine to integrate innovative curricula on nutrition into medical education. Requires the Secretary to ensure that such curricula focus on preventive health measures, including : (1) education on the causes, treatment, and prevention of obesity. (2) office education and counseling to ensure an appropriate diet for mostly healthy people, (3) prevention and treatment of common nutritional deficiencies, (4) the appropriate and inappropriate use of herbs and supplements, (5) office recognition and treatment of common eating disorders. And (6) identification of special dietary needs, eating disorders, and appropriate routes of referral for medical nutrition therapy. Requires grantees to: (1) develop innovative curricula. (2) integrate such curricula into the medical education at the school, (3) evaluate the results achieved with the curricula, (4) establish a multidisciplinary planning committee to develop the curricula. And (5) report to the Secretary on the developed curricula and results achieved. Requires the Secretary to prepare a consolidated report on the curricula and results achieved by grantees and to disseminate such report to schools of medicine.
Alaska Adjacent Zone Safe Oil Transport and Revenue Sharing Act - Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) require oil produced from federal leases in certain Arctic waters, except in preproduction phases , to be transported by pipeline to onshore facilities. And (2) provide for, and issue appropriate permits for, the transportation of oil from such leases in preproduction phases by means other than pipeline. Requires that the state of Alaska receive 37.5 of all revenues derived from all rentals, royalties, bonus bids and other sums payable to the United States from energy development in any area of the Alaska Adjacent Zone, including from all sources of renewable energy leased, developed, or produced in such Zone. Sets forth an allocation scheme under which the Secretary of the Interior is directed to pay: (1) 25 of any allocable state share directly to coastal political subdivisions, (2) 25 of any allocable state share to certain Regional Corporations, and (3) 10 of any allocable state share directly to Indian tribes. Instructs the Secretary to distribute: (1) 15 of certain federal royalty revenues into a specified land and water conservation fund to provide financial assistance to states, and (2) 7.5 of certain federal royalty revenues into direct federal deficit reduction. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on bitumen transported into the United States.
Port Threat and Security Act - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to report to specified congressional committees: (1) a list of all nations whose flag vessels have entered US ports in the previous year, and of those nations, a separate list of nations whose registered flag vessels appear as Priority III or higher on the Boarding Priority Matrix, that have presented certain false vessel-related information to the United States, or whose laws or regulations are not sufficient to allow tracking of ownership and registration histories of registered flag vessels. (2) on actions taken by the United States to improve transparency and security of vessel registration procedures in nations that have been listed. And (3) on recommendations for legislative or other actions needed to improve security of US ports against potential threats posed by flag vessels of such nations. Establishes a program to place sea marshals on vessels entering US ports that have been identified as posing a potential target of attack or because of their location may pose a risk to residential or other densely populated areas. Directs the Secretary to assess the effectiveness of security measures maintained at foreign seaports that serve US vessels, from which foreign vessels serve the United States, or that pose a high risk of introducing danger to international sea travel. Sets forth certain actions the Secretary must take against seaports that do not maintain effective security measures. Imposes a user fee on cruise vessels that arrive at a US port from a foreign port.
Critical Infrastructure Protection Act or CIPA - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to: (1) include in national planning scenarios the threat of electromagnetic pulse (EMP) events. And (2) conduct outreach to educate owners and operators of critical infrastructure, emergency planners, and emergency responders at all levels of government of the threat of EMP events. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology to conduct research and development to mitigate the consequences of EMP events, including: (1) an objective scientific analysis of the risks to critical infrastructures from a range of EMP events. (2) determination of the critical national security assets and vital civic utilities and infrastructures that are at risk from EMP events. (3) an evaluation of emergency planning and response technologies that would address the findings and recommendations of experts, including those of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack. (4) an analysis of available technology options to improve the resiliency of critical infrastructure to EMP. And (5) the restoration and recovery capabilities of critical infrastructure under differing levels of damage and disruption from various EMP events. Includes among the responsibilities of the Secretary of Homeland Security relating to intelligence and analysis and infrastructure protection to prepare and submit to specified congressional committees: (1) a recommended strategy to protect and prepare the critical infrastructure of the American homeland against EMP events, including from acts of terrorism. And (2) biennial updates on the status of such strategy. Authorizes the Secretary to incorporate such strategy into a broader recommendation developed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to help protect and prepare critical infrastructure from terrorism and other threats.
Prohibits deeming an accommodation by the employer reasonable if the accommodation does not remove the conflict between employment requirements and the religious observance or practice. Excludes, in certain circumstances, a defense that the accommodation would be in violation of a seniority system. Prohibits requiring payment of premium wages for work performed during hours to which premium wages would ordinarily be applicable if work is performed during those hours only to accommodate religious requirements of an employee.
Human Smuggling Prevention Act of 2014 - Prohibits an individual acting for financial gain from directing or participating in an effort to bring or attempt to bring five or more persons unlawfully into the United States. Establishes monetary andor prison penalties for such actions. Prescribes increased penalties for actions that: (1) result in death or serious bodily injury, (2) place a life in jeopardy. Or (3) involve bribery of a government official, robbery, sexual abuse, or 10 or more persons. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to: (1) implement a strategy to deter and interdict human smuggling across the international land and maritime borders of the United States, and (2) submit an annual list to Congress of high traffic areas of human smuggling. Makes it a crime to: (1) transmit to another person the location, movement, or activities of law enforcement agents with the intent to further a federal crime relating to immigration, customs, controlled substances, agriculture, monetary instruments, or other border controls. And (2) destroy, alter, or damage any physical or electronic device used by the federal government to control the border or any port of entry. Prohibits the carrying or use of a firearm in an alien smuggling crime.
State Temporary Economic Priority (STEP) Act - Authorizes states to transfer or consolidate funds made available to them under certain federal transportation, education, and job training programs: (1) beginning with the calendar quarter after the United States experiences economic growth at an annual rate of less than 1 for two consecutive calendar quarters. And (2) continuing until 18 months after it experiences economic growth at an annual rate of 1 or more for two consecutive calendar quarters.
States that the availability and use of the pooling of interests method of accounting for any business combination shall be determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect on October 1, 2000. Establishes the Commission on Financial Accounting for Intangibles to consider specified aspects of: (1) generally accepted accounting principles, (2) intangible assets. And (3) the pooling of interests method of accounting for business combinations. Instructs the Commission to report its recommendations and conclusions to the President and Congress.
Authorizes the Secretary of the Navy to transfer certain naval vessels to: (1) Brazil, (2) the Dominican Republic, (3) Ecuador, (4) Egypt, (5) Greece, (6) Mexico, (7) Poland, (8) Taiwan, (9) Thailand. And (10) Turkey. Declares that the value of such transferred vessels shall not be counted for the limitation on the aggregate value of excess defense articles that can be transferred to such a country in any fiscal year. Directs the Secretary, to the maximum extent possible, to require recipient countries, as a condition of transfer, to have such vessels repaired or refurbished at US shipyards, including a US Navy shipyard. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the President should transfer on a grant basis certain excess aircraft and naval vessels to the Government of the Philippines. And (2) the United States should not oppose the transfer of F-5 aircraft by a third country to such Government.
Provides for the adjustment to permanent resident status of certain Haitian nationals .
Maternal Motor Vehicle Crash Safety Act of 2006 - Expresses the sense of Congress with respect to the National Automotive Sampling System Crashworthiness Data System. Directs the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to: (1) provide grants and other incentives to eligible entities to promote the development of data linkage systems that improve the tracking of adverse health effects and birth outcomes for pregnant women involved in motor vehicle crashes. (2) conduct a research program to promote the health and safety of such women and their unborn children. And (3) conduct a public outreach and education program to increase awareness of safety risks associated with motor vehicle crashes for such women and children and methods to reduce such risks. Directs the Administrator to include data regarding the safety of pregnant women and their unborn children who are involved in motor vehicle crashes in the NHTSA's Annual Assessment of Motor Vehicle Crashes.
Directs the President to enter into negotiations to conclude agreements that require the following countries to pay at least 75 percent of the overseas basing costs incurred for stationing of US armed forces and related civilian employees: (1) member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). And (2) foreign nations with which the United States has defense agreements providing for the assignment of US armed forces or combat equipment in such nations. Makes this Act inapplicable to foreign nations that receive assistance under the foreign military financing program or other military assistance pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Phases in limitations on Federal funding for overseas basing costs, setting a maximum payment of 25 percent of such costs for fiscal years after 1995. Authorizes the President to waive the requirements of this Act pursuant to national security interests.
PTSDTBI Guaranteed Review for Heroes Act - Directs the Secretary of Defense to establish a special review board to review the discharge or dismissal of a member of the Armed Forces who: (1) was deployed in support of a contingency operation. (2) was discharged or dismissed under a general or other than honorable condition. And (3) has been diagnosed by a health care professional with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or a traumatic brain injury (TBI). Authorizes the board to undertake a review upon the request of the individual, their surviving spouse, next of kin, or legal representative, or a Member of Congress. Requires a review request to be made within 15 years of a discharge or dismissal. Authorizes the board, after a review, to change the discharge or dismissal of the individual to honorable. Requires the Secretary of the military department concerned to correct the military records of the individual in accordance with such change. Requires, if an appropriate health care official determines in an examination that a member who was deployed in support of a contingency operation has PTSD or a TBI, the Secretary concerned to: (1) refer the member for an evaluation by a physical evaluation board. And (2) not separate the member until after considering the results of the evaluation.
Main Street Survival Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should encourage financial institutions that have received federal financial support to maintain historic levels of lending to small and medium-sized businesses. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a three-year Main Street Revolving Loan Fund Program to provide temporary loans to businesses with less than 1,000 full-time equivalent employees. Establishes in the Treasury a revolving loan fund to implement the Program. Permits a business to use a Main Street revolving loan to finance the cost of certain operations, but prohibits the use of it to expand its operations significantly. Limits the term of such a loan to nine months, and the maximum total amount of loans to a particular business in any fiscal year to $1 million.
Federal Wetlands Jurisdiction Act of 2005 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to clarify that waters of the United States, including the territorial seas, are subject to the jurisdiction of the permitting program for the discharge of dredged or fill material if such waters are: (1) navigable. (2) connected to navigable waters through a continuous, naturally occurring surface water connection. Or (3) wetlands adjacent to such navigable or connected waters. States that waters are considered connected to navigable waters for purposes of this Act if connected by perennial or intermittent streams that contribute flow to navigable waters. Excludes from the definition those waters connected by: (1) sheet flow, (2) ephemeral waters, ground water, manmade ditches, or pipelines. Or (3) a municipal separate storm sewer system or any other regulated point source. Excludes fastlands from the jurisdiction of the permitting program. Grants sole authority to the Secretary of the Army to determine the waters subject to the jurisdiction of the permitting program. Sets forth procedures whereby property owners, or those with written authorization from such owners, may: (1) request that the Secretary determine jurisdiction under this Act and thereafter seek judicial review or injunctive relief, or (2) proceed under the administrative appeals process.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should instruct the US Executive Director at each international financial institution to use the US voice, vote, and influence to urge that the cancellation or reduction of debt owed to the institution by a country be provided only if it meets the additional requirements of this Act.
Authorizes such personnel to modify the disciplinary action on a case-by-case basis. Permits assertion of a defense that the offense was committed unintentionally or innocently. Allows the local educational agency (LEA) responsible for providing educational services to a child with a disability who is expelled or suspended under this Act to choose to continue to provide educational services to such child, but specifies that an LEA that so chooses to continue to provide services: (1) is not required by IDEA to provide such child with a free appropriate public education, or any particular level of service. And (2) has discretion as to the location where it provides the services.
Prescription Drug Price Monitoring Commission Act of 1998 - Establishes the Prescription Drug Price Monitoring Commission which shall conduct specified studies concerning US pharmaceutical prices, including the establishment of a pharmaceutical products price review board. Terminates the Commission on a specified date. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to study and report on Federal subsidies and incentives provided to the pharmaceutical industry. Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to require drug manufacturers participating in the Medicaid rebate program to report within a certain time after the end of each calendar year on the average price at which the manufacturer sold each covered outpatient drug in Canada, Australia, Mexico, and the European Union countries.
Servicemembers Access to Justice Act of 2012 - Waives a state's sovereign immunity with respect to the enforcement of uniformed services members' employment or reemployment rights or benefits under the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA). Makes unenforceable agreements between an employer and employee requiring arbitration of disputes arising under USERRA. Provides exceptions. Requires the validity and enforceability of such an agreement to be determined by a court . Provides increased liquidated damages, and authorizes punitive damages, against state or private employer violations of USERRA. Provides a right to a jury trial in such cases. Requires the award of attorney fees in actions to enforce USERRA. Requires a court to use equitable relief, including injunctions and restraining orders when appropriate, for USERRA violations. Requires federal procurement contracts to include a notice that the contractor may have USERRA obligations. Requires a Comptroller General study on the effectiveness of federal education and outreach programs on employer obligations under USERRA.
Amends SSA title XVIII to: (1) create outlier provisions for home health services, (2) revise the definition of homebound. And (3) restructure the review process for claims submitted by home health agencies. Amends BBA '97 for the stated purpose of restoring periodic interim payments for home health agencies. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Secretary of Health and Human Services should: (1) ensure that the prospective payment system (PPS) for home health services provides for appropriate payment of services provided to beneficiaries at rates that include incentives to provide services efficiently to all beneficiaries and do not create unintentional incentives to discriminate against beneficiaries with complex medical conditions. (2) ensure that the establishment of the case mix adjustment for such services does not penalize agencies that serve such beneficiaries, provides some predictive value, and accounts for appropriate variables, such as age and health status. (3) establish a nationally uniform process to ensure that fiscal intermediaries have the training and ability to provide timely and accurate coverage and payment information to Medicare home health agencies. (4) assess home health agency regulatory costs associated with the PPS for home health services and consider the cost impact on the agency's ability to provide such services. And (5) provide periodic updates to Congress and home health agencies on the Secretary's progress in implementing such PPS.
Veterans Timely Access to Health Care Act - Makes the standard for access to care for a veteran seeking primary care from the Department of Veterans Affairs 30 days from the date the veteran contacts the Department. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to prescribe an appropriate standard for waiting times at Department health-care facilities as measured from the time a visit is scheduled until the time the veteran is seen. Directs the Secretary to periodically review the performance of Department health-care facilities in meeting such standards. Authorizes the Secretary to contract for health care services in non-Department facilities in a case in which the Secretary is unable to meet access standards. Prohibits such contracting-out with respect to a Department geographic service area that has a compliance rate in meeting such standards of 90 percent or more. Requires quarterly reports from the Secretary to the congressional veterans' committees on the Department's experience with respect to waiting times.
Bereaved Consumer's Bill of Rights Act of 2010 - Directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prescribe rules prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices in the provision of funeral goods or services. Includes among such rules: (1) a requirement that price information be disclosed clearly and conspicuously. (2) a prohibition on misrepresentations or conditioning the provision of goods or services upon the purchase of other goods or services from the provider. (3) a requirement that any presale disclosures and contracts are written clearly, stating the merchandise, services, and prices and disclosing any penalties for canceling or transferring a contract. (4) a requirement that cemeteries provide to consumers all written rules and regulations of the cemetery and all material terms and conditions of purchase. And (5) a requirement that cemeteries retain all records in existence on the date of enactment of this Act and accurately record and retain records of interments, inurnments, or entombments. Applies such rules to states or political subdivisions and tax-exempt organizations. Excludes cemeteries organized, operated, managed, and owned by a religious organization and that are not affiliated with a for-profit provider offering funeral goods and services for sale to the public. Gives standing to states to bring a civil action for violations of this Act.
Witness Security and Protection Grant Program Act of 2011 - Directs the Attorney General to: (1) make competitive grants to state, tribal, and local governments to establish or maintain programs to protect or assist witnesses in court proceedings involving homicide, a serious felony or drug offense, or gangs or organized crime. (2) evaluate grant applicants based on specified criteria, including the extent of witness intimidation and the number of serious crimes per capita with respect to such applicant. (3) provide technical assistance to grant applicants for establishing or maintaining a witness protection plan. And (4) develop and disseminate best practice models to assist states and other relevant entities in addressing witness safety, short-term and permanent witness relocation, financial and housing assistance, and other necessary services. Expresses the sense of Congress that states and relevant entities should use the best practice models developed by the Attorney General to evaluate, improve, and develop witness protection or witness assistance programs.
America's Youth Commission Act of 2001 - Establishes the National Commission on the Impact of United States Culture on America's Youth.
Medicare Prescription Drug Lifeline Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a process under which an individual may terminate enrollment in the prescription drug plan or the Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug (MA-PD) Plan in which he or she is enrolled and enroll in any prescription drug plan or MA-PD Plan serving the area where the individual resides that provides some coverage of covered part D drugs after the individual has reached the initial coverage limit but not yet the annual out-of-pocket threshold. Sets forth a special rule permitting applicable individuals to enroll in a prescription drug plan outside the region in which they reside. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on: (1) the costs to the Medicare program of eliminating the initial coverage limit and providing specified standard prescription drug coverage until the individual reaches the annual out-of-pocket threshold. And (2) the adjustment to the applicable coinsurance that would be necessary to eliminate the initial coverage limit under such conditions without increasing the costs to the Medicare program.
APHIS Function Transfer Act - Transfers from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary of Homeland Security: (1) specified agricultural import and entry inspection functions, personnel, and fees, and (2) Plum Island Animal Disease Center .
This bill amends the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to define quot, distributed resourcequot. As an electric power source connected directly to the distribution network or on the customer side of the meter. State regulatory authorities shall by certain deadlines: establish proceedings to examine the degree to which distributed resources contribute specified ancillary services, such as reactive supply, energy imbalance, and flexibility and ramping services, among others. Prescribe measures to ensure adequate ancillary services so that grid interconnection for distributed resources is safe, reliable, and efficient. Examine the effects of net metering and customer-owned distributed generation on resource planning of each electric utility, and determine whether electricity rates established for net metering service are just and reasonable and not unduly preferential or discriminatory.
Childcare Accountability and Responsibility Act of 2009 or the CARE for Kids Act of 2009 - Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to require a national criminal background check for employees of child care providers in any state that receives funds from the Child Care and Development Block Grant Program. Requires that such background check include: (1) a search of the national Sex Offender Registry, the National Crime Information Center, state criminal registries, and state-based abuse and neglect registries and databases, and (2) a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint check.
Freedom from Unfair Energy Levy Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) suspend, for six months, motor fuels taxes. And (2) repeal the 1993 4.3 cents per gallon increase in motor fuel taxes. Sets forth floor stock provisions.
Incentives to Educate American Children Act of 2002 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit a tax credit of $1,000 for: (1) teachers in public elementary or secondary schools or public kindergartens in rural areas or areas with high poverty. And (2) teachers certified by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. Grants a credit of $2,000 for a teacher meeting both criteria.
Combating Climate Change Through Individual Action Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow tax credits for: (1) 30 of carbon sequestration and soil conservation expenditures made by taxpayers engaged in the business of farming. (2) 10 of qualifying planting expenditures, including expenditures for the purchase and planting of any tree, plant, shrub, or bush, and the purchase and installation of a vegetated roof system. (3) the conversion of cropland to pasture for grazing purposes or to grassland or rangeland, and (4) certain types of reforestation and afforestation of land.
Preservation of Antibiotics for Human Treatment Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to refuse to approve an application for an antimicrobial new animal drug when the applicant fails to demonstrate to a reasonable certainty that human health will not be harmed because of the development of antimicrobial resistance attributable to the nontherapeutic use of such drug. Rescinds within a specified period existing approvals and exemptions concerning the nontherapeutic use of certain antimicrobial drugs until the applicant meets the same standard of lack of harm to human health as required for new animal drugs, including the use of penicillins, tetracyclines, macrolides, lincomycin, bacitracin, virginiamycin, aminoglycosides, and sulfonamides in an animal and fluroroquinolones in poultry.
Safe, Convenient, Reliable, Efficient, Effective, Next-Generation, Functional, and Secure TSA Act of 2016 or the SCREEN FAST Act This bill directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) of the Department of Homeland Security to establish a pilot program at three category X airports to reconfigure and install security systems that increase efficiency and reduce vulnerabilities in airport terminals, particularly those that have large open areas where screening occurs. The TSA shall also establish a pilot program at those airports to develop and test prototypes of screening security systems and security checkpoint configurations to expedite the movement of passengers by deploying an array of technologies including passive and active systems, new types of security baggage and passenger screening systems, and new systems to address passenger and baggage anomalies.
Americans Giving care to Elders (AGE) Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow caregivers a tax credit for up to $6,000 of the eldercare expenses incurred for their parents . Amends the Older Americans Act of 1965 to: (1) increase funding for the National Family Caregiver Support Program through FY2011. And (2) establish a National Resource Center on Family Caregiving to provide information on and support for family caregiver support programs.
Safer Trucks and Buses Act of 2015 The Department of Transportation (DOT) shall enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Public Administration to study how to improve the Compliance, Safety, Accountability initiative of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. DOT must ensure that motor carrier safety data predictive of crashes which is generated under this initiative is not made available to the public until the study findings and recommendations are reported to Congress. Such data may not be used used in a civil action for damages resulting from an incident involving a motor carrier.
This bill requires the probationary period before an appointment in the competitive civil service or an initial appointment as a supervisor or manager becomes final to be: (1) with respect to any position that requires formal training, a period of two years beginning on the date that such training is completed. (2) with respect to any position that requires a license, a period of two years beginning on the date that such license is granted. And (3) with respect to any other position, at least two years. The probationary period for a preference eligible nbsp. Initially appointed to a position that exists as of 180 days after the enactment of this Act shall not be longer than the period that applies on such date. The probationary period for a preference eligible appointed to a position that does not exist on such date shall not be longer than the length of time the President establishes. Each agency must ensure that: (1) announcements of vacant positions and offers of appointment clearly state the terms and conditions of the probationary period,nbsp. (2) individuals who are required to complete probationary periods receive timely notice of requirements to successfully complete the probationary period, andnbsp. (3) certification of such successful completion is made. The bill increases from one to two years the probationary period after which an individual's appointment as a career appointee in the Senior Executive Service becomes final. The definition of employee for purposes of adverse action provisions is revised to mean an individual in the competitive service or in the excepted service who has completed at least two years of current continuous service in the same or a similar position.
Title I: Naval Vessel Transfer - Naval Vessel Transfer Act of 2008 - Authorizes the President to transfer on a grant basis to: (1) Pakistan, the OLIVER HAZARD PERRY class guided missile frigate MCINERNEY, (2) Chile, the KAISER class oiler ANDREW J. HIGGINS. And (3) Peru, the NEWPORT class amphibious tank landing ships FRESNO and RACINE. States that: (1) the value of such vessels transferred on a grant basis shall not be counted against the aggregate value of excess defense articles transferred to countries in any fiscal year under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, (2) transfer costs shall be charged to the recipient. And (3) to the maximum extent practicable, the country to which a vessel is transferred shall have necessary vessel repair and refurbishment carried out at US shipyards . Terminates transfer authority two years after enactment of this Act. Title II: United States Arms Exports - Directs the President to: (1) carry out an ongoing assessment of the extent to which Israel possesses a qualitative military edge over military threats. (2) use such assessment in reviewing applications to sell defense articles and services under the Arms Export Control Act to a Middle Eastern country other than Israel. And (3) submit an initial report on such assessment to the appropriate congressional committees by June 30, 2009, and then every four years thereafter. Amends the Arms Export Control Act to require any certification relating to a proposed sale or export of defense articles or services to a Middle Eastern country other than Israel to include a determination that such sale or export will not adversely affect Israel's qualitative military edge over military threats. Makes specified foreign military financing program funds for FY2009 available on a grant basis for Israel. Authorizes funding in FY2009 for the procurement of advanced weapons systems, including research and development, by Israel. Amends the Arms Export Control Act to provide the Republic of Korea with special foreign military sales status, including expedited congressional review for export of US defense items and services.
Hardship Outlays to protect Mortgagee Equity (HOME) Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow taxpayers to withdraw amounts from their tax-exempt pension and retirement plans, without incurring the 10 penalty otherwise imposed on such withdrawals, to make mortgage payments on their principal residences.
Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a community-based overweight and obesity prevention program under which the Secretary shall award grants to, or enter into contracts with, eligible entities to plan and implement evidence-based programs for the prevention of overweight and obesity among children and their families through improved nutrition and increased physical activity. Sets the period of a grant or contract at five years, subject to renewal. Requires an entity, to be eligible, to be a community partnership that demonstrates community support. Authorizes the Secretary to award a grant or contract to only an entity that: (1) demonstrates that it will establish a steering committee to provide input on the assessment of, and improvements to, the entity's program and has conducted or will conduct an assessment of the overweight and obesity problem in its community. (2) agrees to provide non-federal amounts equal to $1 for each $9 provided. And (3) demonstrates that it will maintain its previous level of spending for funded activities. Directs the Secretary to give preference to entities that will: (1) serve communities with high levels of overweight and obesity and related chronic diseases. And (2) plan or implement activities for the prevention of overweight and obesity in school or workplace settings.
Custodial Interrogation Recording Act Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to direct the Attorney General to make grants to states and local governments for the complete and accurate recording, by both audio and video means, of every custodial interrogation occurring within the state or unit of local government.
Heart Disease Education, Analysis, Research, and Treatment for Women Act or the HEART for Women Act - Directs the Comptroller General to report on whether the presentation of clinical study safety and effectiveness data by sex, age, and racial subgroups complies with Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to submit a response to such report, including a corrective action plan as needed. Requires the Director of the Office of Women's Health of FDA to report on the compliance of clinical studies of women's health with such FDA requirements, including requirements regarding: (1) the adequacy of representation of females, racial and ethnic minorities, and adults of all ages in approved clinical studies. And (2) the extent to which a summary of product safety and effectiveness data disaggregated by sex, age, and racial subgroup is available to the public. Requires the Director of the Office of Minority Health of FDA to submit a report that includes such information with respect to clinical studies of minority health. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary to report on the quality of, and access to, care for women with heart disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases and to include recommendations for eliminating disparities in, and improving the treatment of, heart disease, stroke, and other cardiovascular diseases in women. Reauthorizes a program to award grants for preventive heath services and referrals for medical treatment for women through entities that are screening women for breast or cervical cancer. Requires the Secretary to study the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on such services and make recommendations for improvement in the provision of preventive health services, referrals, and followup services to women eligible for such services.
Electronic Device Recycling Research and Development Act - Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to award multiyear grants through a competitive, merit-based process to consortia: (1) to conduct research to create innovative and practical approaches to manage the environmental impacts of electronic devices through recycling, reuse, reduction of the use of hazardous materials, and life-cycle extension. And (2) through such research, to contribute to the professional development of scientists, engineers, and technicians in the fields of electronic device manufacturing, design, refurbishing, and recycling. Sets forth the ways in which research results shall be disseminated to the public. Provides for the protection of proprietary information of trade secrets provided by any person or entity pursuant to this Act. Requires the Administrator to report to Congress biennially on the grants awarded and the results of research projects carried out under such grants. Requires the Administrator to enter into an arrangement for the National Academy of Sciences to report to Congress on: (1) opportunities for, and barriers to, increasing the recyclability of electronic devices and making electronic devises safer and more environmentally friendly. (2) the risks posed by the storage, transport, recycling, and disposal of unwanted electronic devices. (3) the current status of research and training programs to promote the environmental design of electronic devices to increase the recyclability of such devices. And (4) regulatory or statutory barriers that may prevent the adoption or implementation of best management practices or technological innovations that may arise from the research and training programs established in this Act. Requires such reports to: (1) identify gaps in the current research and training programs in addressing the opportunities, barriers, and risks relating to electronic device recycling. And (2) recommend areas where additional research and development resources are needed to reduce the impact of unwanted electronic devices on the environment. Requires the Administrator to award grants through a competitive, merit-based process to institutions of higher education to develop curricula that incorporates the principles of environmental design into the development of electronic devices: (1) for the training of engineers and other students. And (2) to support the continuing education of professionals in the electronic device manufacturing, design, refurbishing, or recycling industries. Requires: (1) the Administrator to conduct outreach to minority serving institutions to provide information about the grants. And (2) such grants to be used for activities that enhance the ability of an institution to broaden the engineering or professional continuing education curriculum to include environmental engineering design principles and consideration of product lifecycles related to electronic devices and increasing the recyclability of such devices. Requires the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to: (1) establish an initiative to develop a comprehensive physical property database for environmentally friendly alternative materials for use in electronic devices. And (2) develop a strategic plan to establish priorities and physical property characterization requirements for the database. Authorizes appropriations.
Unemployment Assistance Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income amounts distributed from tax-exempt retirement plans, health savings accounts, Roth individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and qualified tuition programs to pay for certain living, health care and education or job training expenses of a taxpayer during a period of unemployment not exceeding two years.
Medication Error Prevention Act of 2002 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to make medication error information privileged for Federal and State administrative and civil judicial proceedings if the information is voluntarily submitted by a health care provider to a program, approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, for the purpose of developing and disseminating recommendations and information regarding preventing such errors.
Great Lakes Water Protection Act - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to prohibit publicly owned treatment works (POTWs) from intentionally diverting waste streams to bypass any portion of the treatment facility if the diversion results in a discharge into the Great Lakes unless: (1) the bypass is unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage, (2) there is no feasible alternative, and (3) the treatment works provides notice. Or (4) the bypass does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded and is for essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the treatment facility. Requires: (1) such notice to be provided to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) prior to an anticipated bypass or within 24 hours of becoming aware of an unanticipated bypass. And (2) follow-up notice regarding the cause and duration of, volume of discharge resulting from, and public access areas affected by an unanticipated bypass. Includes among prohibited bypasses those resulting in discharges from a POTW that consist of effluent routed around treatment units and blended with effluent from treatment units prior to discharge. Directs the Administrator to establish procedures to ensure that permits issued to POTWs under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System include requirements to implement this Act. Provides a maximum civil penalty for violations. Establishes the Great Lakes Cleanup Fund from which amounts shall be provided for improving wastewater discharges.
Amends the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to add to title I a new subtitle C, which may be cited as the Program for Investment in Microentrepreneurs Act of 1999 . Directs the Administrator of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund (Administrator) to establish a microenterprise technical assistance and capacity building program to provide Fund grants to qualified nonprofit organizations to: (1) provide training and technical assistance to disadvantaged entrepreneurs. (2) provide training and capacity building services to help microenterprise development organizations and programs develop microenterprise training and services. And (3) aid in researching and developing the best practices in the field of microenterprise and technical assistance programs for disadvantaged entrepreneurs. Prohibits the use of grant amounts to make loans of any kind. Sets forth an allocation formula for such assistance and for grants benefitting very low-income persons, including those residing on Indian reservations. Authorizes a qualified organization to provide subgrants to small and emerging microenterprise entities. Instructs the Administrator to employ selection criteria that provide positive consideration to applications by qualified organizations participating in the Microloan program established under the Small Business Act. Mandates matching funds from non-Federal sources. Requires the Administrator to report to certain congressional committees on the enterprise technical assistance and capacity building program, including an evaluation of its effectiveness. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Administrator to: (1) submit regulations to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) for review and comment. And (2) enter into a memorandum of understanding with the SBA Administrator providing that the program under this Act and the Microloan program under the Small Business Act will be implemented in conjunction and coordination with one another. Prohibits the Fund Administrator from making any grant under this Act before reaching accord on such memorandum of understanding.
Synthetics Trafficking and Overdose Prevention Act of 2016 or the STOP Act of 2016 This bill amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to make the Postmaster General or Postmaster General designee, including a person holding a valid customs broker's license, the importer of record for non-letter class mail imported into the United States. The term quot, non-letter class mailquot. Means any product of the US Postal Service or a Universal Postal Union designated operator that is provided pursuant to: the Universal Postal Union's Parcel Post Regulations and Final Protocol. Or the Universal Postal Union's Letter Post Regulations and Final Protocol, except small letters, as in effect upon enactment of this bill. The bill amends the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 to impose a duty of $1 on each item of non-letter class mail imported into the United States. The bill amends the Trade Act of 2002 to direct the Department of the Treasury to require the Postmaster General to provide for the advanced electronic transmission to the US Customs and Border Protection of certain information on non-letter class mail imported into the United States.
Tick-Borne Disease Research Accountability and Transparency Act of 2014 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to conduct or support epidemiological, basic, translational, and clinical research regarding Lyme disease and other tick-borne diseases. Directs the Secretary to establish the Interagency Lyme and Tick-Borne Disease Working Group to review all HHS efforts concerning tick-borne diseases to ensure interagency coordination and examine research priorities. Requires the Working Group to: (1) provide a summary of tick-borne disease research, advances, and scientific viewpoints every two years, (2) make recommendations to HHS regarding tick-borne disease activities. And (3) hold annual public meetings. Requires HHS to submit a strategic plan for tick-borne disease research within three years of enactment and every five years thereafter that includes: (1) budgetary requirements. (2) benchmarks for improving tick-borne disease diagnosis, treatment, outcomes, and prevention. And (3) a plan to disseminate Working Group summaries and other relevant information on tick-borne disease to health professionals and the public.
Department of Veterans Affairs Health Professionals Education Debt Reduction Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out the Department of Veterans Affairs Education Debt Reduction Program to assist Department health-care personnel serving in the Veterans Health Administration in reducing the amount of debt incurred in completing educational programs that qualify such personnel for such service. Makes eligible for such Program any individual other than a physician or dentist serving in a Department health care position and having an outstanding health education loan from a qualified educational institution. Provides certain assistance preferences. Limits the assistance to $4,000 for each full year served in a Department health-care position, up to a $12,000 maximum. Authorizes appropriations for the Program for FY 1994 through 1998.
A Better Chance to Learn Act of 1993 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to local educational agencies and community-based organizations to pay 80 percent of the cost of home-based parent and early childhood education programs. Allocates one-half of such grants to new programs and one-half to existing programs. Gives priority to programs that target: (1) early childhood program assistance under the Head Start Act or chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (2) families that qualify for such assistance, but are not served by such programs. Or (3) parents who have limited or unsuccessful formal schooling. Makes an individual eligible to participate if he or she is a parent with one or more children age three, four, or five. Sets forth application and other program requirements. Authorizes appropriations.
Flood-Affected States Assistance Act of 1993 - Provides for an enhanced Federal medical assistance match for services furnished under Medicaid (title XIX of the Social Security Act (SSA)) to individuals residing in major disaster areas resulting from the widespread flooding in the Midwest in 1993 . Disregards certain donated items and temporary financial assistance when determining eligibility for benefits under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and Medicaid programs. Provides for a greater Federal share of grants to individuals and families residing in Midwest flood areas. Waives certain administrative costs involved in such grants. Extends the submission deadline for certain AFDC and JOBS program reports. Suspends temporarily certain State quality control functions. Deems States in Midwest flood areas to be in compliance with requirements under SSA title IV part D relating to child support data processing and information retrieval systems. Provides for an enhanced Federal match for: (1) individuals in Midwest flood areas who are newly eligible for Medicaid or certain State welfare programs. (2) the transitional housing special needs of such individuals under AFDC. (3) emergency assistance furnished to families in Midwest flood areas with children, (4) JOBS program participants in Midwest flood areas. And (5) certain optional Medicaid services furnished to individuals in Midwest flood areas. Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to provide for a permanent enhanced Federal match under the individual and family grant program for States frequently declared to be disaster areas.
Small Business Employment and Education Enhancement Act of 2001 - Expresses the sense of Congress regarding: (1) locally-driven initiatives to improve education, (2) consideration of the views of small business concerning education. (3) education initiatives as key to fostering small business expansion, entrepreneurship, and job creation. (4) Department of Education facilitation of the sharing of ideas and best practices at State and local levels, particularly with respect to partnerships between small businesses and school systems. And (5) the expediting of the Department's approval of programs or proposals. Directs the Secretary of Education to: (1) disseminate information and facilitate the sharing of information designed to assist small businesses in working with school systems to improve the education system through specified means, including the Internet World Wide Web. (2) establish a centralized database of materials to act as a clearinghouse for information on successful initiatives and best practices regarding the involvement of small businesses in education. And (3) study and report to Congress on the challenges facing small businesses in obtaining workers with adequate skills. Amends the Department of Education Organization Act to establish an Office of Small Business Education, administered by a Director, to: (1) review the needs of small businesses and the contributions the small business community may make with respect to efforts to improve education. (2) promote efforts to address the needs of small businesses though education programs. (3) work to remove impediments to partnerships between school systems and small businesses. And (4) propose solutions to education-related problems facing small businesses. Requires the Director to provide technical assistance to small businesses, small business organizations, school systems, and communities working cooperatively to improve education outcomes. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish a small business education opportunity tax credit for qualified education opportunity expenses.
Cuba Transition Act of 2003 - Directs the the Secretary of State to designate, within the Department of State, a coordinator responsible for designing an overall strategy to coordinate specified preparations for a transition in Cuba that targets economic, political and financial developments. Authorizes the Secretary to designate specified funds to be provided to the Organization of American States (OAS) for: (1) Inter-American Commission on Human Rights activities relating to the situation of human rights in Cuba. (2) the funding of an OAS emergency fund for the deployment of human rights observers, election support, and election observation in Cuba. And (3) scholarships for Cuban students attending colleges, universities, or other educational programs in member states of the OAS. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should begin consultation with: (1) governments of other Western Hemisphere countries regarding a transition in Cuba. And (2) international partners and governments regarding a multilateral diplomatic and financial support program for response to a transition in Cuba. Authorizes the President to furnish assistance and provide other support for individuals and independent nongovernmental organizations to support specified democracy-building efforts for Cuba. Authorizes appropriations to the President to establish a fund to provide assistance to a transition government in Cuba.
Choice in Health Options Insures Care for Everyone (CHOICE) Act of 2009 - Establishes the American Trust Health Plan to offer eligible individuals health benefits coverage. Requires the Plan to comply with all requirements that are applicable with respect to other health benefit plans to be offered through a National Health Insurance Exchange. Exempts the Plan from state insurance regulations. Treats enrollment with the Plan as satisfying any requirement under federal law for the individual to demonstrate enrollment in health insurance or benefits coverage. Sets forth provisions regarding administration of the Plan. Requires the Plan to be financially self-sustaining insofar as funds to operate the Plan shall be derived from premiums of individuals enrolled under the Plan. Makes the Plan eligible to accept subsides to the same extent as other health benefit plans offered through an Exchange. Prohibits significant changes to the Plan without public notice. Conditions a health care provider's continued participation in the Medicare program on participation in the American Trust Health Plan. Sets payment for health care providers under the Plan at 105 of the payment rates under Medicare. Requires the Administrator of the Plan to set the benefit level and the premiums.
Stand with the Iranian People Act - Directs the Secretary of State to deny issuance of a visa and the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to deny US admission to any government official of Iran who is credibly alleged to have ordered, acquiesced to, or participated in human rights abuses against the people of Iran. Authorizes the Secretary of State to waive such ban if in the US national interest. Prohibits the head of an executive agency from entering into or renewing a contract for the procurement of goods or services with a person or entity that provides censorship or surveillance technology to the government of Iran. Authorizes the Secretary concerned to waive such prohibition if in the US national interest. States that the establishment and carrying out of operations by US nonprofit organizations in Iran for the direct provision of specified humanitarian and people-to-people assistance may not be prohibited or restricted. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to require such an organization to notify the Department of the Treasury up to 14 days in advance of commencing operations in Iran. Excludes from such provision an organization that provides services or conducts transactions with any organization or entity that appears on the Department of the Treasury's Specially Designated Nationals List .
Asbestos Management Incentive Act - Absolves lending institutions that make loans or credit secured by liens on commercial buildings from liability resulting from asbestos material in any case in which the building was constructed during the five-year period ending on the date that the loan was made and the building's construction manager certifies that the building contains no asbestos-containing material, or in the case of any building: (1) for which an asbestos inspection was conducted after January 1, 1989, and during such five-year period. (2) that has not been significantly rebuilt in the area that contains such material since that inspection was completed. (3) for which that portion of material recommended for removal has been removed. And (4) for which an operations and maintenance program is currently being conducted. Bars immunity from liability if the lending institution requires: (1) removal of material that the management planner has recommended be handled in place. Or (2) an asbestos inspection of the building despite the fact that the loan applicant demonstrates that certain conditions have been satisfied or that all such material has been removed. Makes immunity inapplicable to a subsidiary of a lending institution if the subsidiary is the person to whom the loan is made. Continues liability for institutions that acquire title to a building through foreclosure as long as the institution maintains an operation and maintenance program. Sets forth requirements for asbestos inspections and management planner qualifications. Amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to prohibit persons from preparing asbestos management plans for public or commercial buildings unless they are accredited. Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to: (1) promulgate regulations governing the inspection and management of asbestos in public and commercial buildings. And (2) update and revise asbestos guidance documents periodically. Requires, after an asbestos inspection: (1) the remaining asbestos-containing material to be visually inspected every six months. (2) all remaining material in public and maintenance areas of the building to be prominently labeled. And (3) a report to be completed and made available to maintenance workers.
Tax Incentives for Fuel Efficient Vehicles Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code with respect to the (automotive) gas guzzler manufacturer excise tax to: (1) increase the weight of a covered automobile to12,000 pounds. (2) revise the excise tax table, including the addition of a model-year calculation criteria. (3) revise the exception to such coverage, including elimination of the exception based upon nonpassenger treatment under specified Department of Transportation rules. And (4) apply such provisions to sales after October 31, 2005. Establishes a highly fuel-efficient automobile credit for taxpayer purchases of a new passenger or nonpassenger automobile that exceeds specified fuel economy ratings. Applies such credit to vehicles placed in service after October 31, 2005.
MedicareChoice Improvement and Stabilization Act of 2001 - Amends part C (MedicareChoice) of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to make each annual MedicareChoice capitation rate for a MedicareChoice payment area for a contract year equal to the largest of the amounts specified under current law or, for 2003, 100 percent of the fee-for-service costs for the MedicareChoice payment area for services covered under Medicare parts A or B for individuals entitled to benefits under part A and enrolled under part B who are not enrolled in a MedicareChoice plan under this part for the year. Revises the calculation of the national standardized annual MedicareChoice capitation rate used in determining the input-price-adjusted annual national MedicareChoice capitation rate for a MedicareChoice payment area for calculation of annual MedicareChoice capitation rates for 2003. Eliminates budget neutrality in such calculation for a year other than 2003. Modifies requirements for establishment of standards for provider-sponsored organizations for MedicareChoice organizations and plans in relation to State laws to avoid duplicative State regulation. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a demonstration program under which payment rules for MedicareChoice organizations are modified in order to promote: (1) the offering of MedicareChoice plans by preferred provider organizations, of MedicareChoice plans that provide point-of-sale coverage for other than participating providers, and of MSA plans: and (2) the use of disease management programs by MedicareChoice plans. Amends SSA title XVII part C to: (1) suspend the limitation for program reentry for MedicareChoice organizations for 2003 and 2004. And (2) set forth rules governing specialized MedicareChoice plans for special needs beneficiaries. Amends the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 to provide for extension of municipal health service demonstration projects.
Congressional Accountability and Oversight in Syria Act - Prohibits assistance for the purpose, or which would have the effect, of promoting the capacity of any nation, group, organization, movement, or individual to conduct military or paramilitary operations in Syria, unless and until Congress expressly authorizes such assistance by law.
Peer Support Communities of Recovery Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to allow the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to award grants to nonprofits that focus on substance use disorder to establish regional technical assistance centers to provide assistance regarding implementation of peer-delivered addiction recovery support services, establishment of recovery community organizations and centers, and overdose reversal medication.
Cyber Supply Chain Management and Transparency Act of 2014 - Requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to issue guidelines for agencies that contract to acquire software, firmware, or products containing a third party or open source binary component. Requires binary component contracts to include clauses requiring: a confidentially supplied list, or a bill of materials, of each binary component that is used in the software, firmware, or product. The contractor to verify that products do not contain known security vulnerabilities and to notify the purchasing agency of any known vulnerabilities or defects. The contractor to obtain a waiver from the purchasing agency for components known to be vulnerable. An agency approving a vulnerability waiver to accept all risk associated with component use, product designs to allow fixes with patches, updates, or replacements. And the contractor to provide timely repairs for discovered vulnerabilities. Directs the OMB to issue guidance requiring agencies: (1) to replace components with currently known vulnerabilities and to remove or repair any new vulnerable components that become known. And (2) to migrate to patchable, repairable, and fixable products. Requires agencies to provide the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with a list of each known vulnerable component in any product in use by the agencies. Directs DHS to issue an annual confidential report describing the security vulnerabilities of projects that created any known vulnerable component. Requires the report to assess the integrity of component suppliers for the incidence of security vulnerabilities for use by other agencies. Requires agencies, within 30 months after enactment of this Act, to report to Congress regarding the completion of the removal of each known vulnerable or defective component. Directs other entities of the US government to replace vulnerable components with less vulnerable alternatives.
Environmental Protection Encouragement Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the expensing of the cost of environmental improvement property.
Ensuring the Taxpayer a Fair Return for Federal Onshore Oil and Gas Resources Act of 2015 This bill amends the Mineral Leasing Act to increase the minimum acceptable bids and rentals for leases of oil, natural gas, and tar sand on federal land. Minimum acceptable bids and rentals shall receive inflation adjustments once every four years. One-third of any amounts received by the United States from sales, bonuses, and royalties, including interest charges collected under the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982, and from rentals of the public lands in Alaska under the Mineral Leasing Act and the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970, shall be made available in specified percentages: for use for oil and gas inspection and enforcement. To remediate, reclaim, and properly plug and abandon orphan oil and gas wells on federal lands. And to the state within whose boundaries the leased land is located, or the deposits were derived, for state use in accordance with specified requirements.
Outlines provisions authorizing a person that receives or obtains customer proprietary information to disclose such information to criminal law enforcement and judicial personnel for criminal law enforcement and related judicial proceedings. Provides requirements for court orders for investigative or law enforcement officers to obtain such information, including that: (1) the information sought is relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation. And (2) the law enforcement need for such information outweighs the privacy interest of the individual involved.
Financial Information Privacy Act - Amends the Consumer Credit Protection Act to: (1) specify the types of enterprises constituting a financial institution within its purview. And (2) authorize the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to prescribe regulations clarifying or describing the types of institutions which shall be treated as financial institutions for purposes of this Act. Declares it a violation of this Act to obtain or disclose under false pretenses customer information of a financial institution. Grants the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), certain banking regulatory agencies, and the States enforcement powers under this Act. Subjects violations of this Act to civil liability for damages and Federal criminal penalties. Requires each Federal banking agency to issue advisories to depository institutions within its purview in order to assist in deterring and detecting the acts proscribed by this Act. Requires the Comptroller General to report to the Congress on: (1) the efficacy and adequacy of the remedies provided in this Act. And (2) recommendations for additional action to address threats to the privacy of financial information.
National Security Whistleblower Protection Act of 2016 This bill extends personnel protections to whistleblowers by classifying the suspension or revocation of access to classified information as a personnel action. This classification also applies to employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall report to Congress on allegations of retaliation against whistleblowers whose access to classified information was suspended or revoked.
Protecting Pregnant Women and Children From Perchlorate Act of 2011 - Amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) publish a health advisory for perchlorate that is fully protective of the health of vulnerable persons , taking into consideration body weight, exposure patterns, and all routes of exposure. And (2) establish a national primary drinking water regulation for perchlorate that is protective of vulnerable persons and the maximum contaminant level of which is as close to the maximum contaminant level goal for perchlorate, and as protective of vulnerable persons, as is feasible.
Stadium Financing and Franchise Relocation Act of 1999 - Rewrites the Sports Broadcasting Act to exempt from the antitrust laws any joint agreement: (1) by or among persons engaging in or conducting the organized professional team sports of football, baseball, basketball, or hockey by which any league of clubs participating in that professional sport sells or otherwise transfers all or part of the rights of that league's member clubs in the sponsored telecasting of games. (2) by which the member clubs of two or more professional football leagues that are exempt from taxation combine their operations in an expanded single league that is exempt from income tax, if that agreement increases the number of professional football clubs operating and contains provisions that are directly relevant to the combination of operations for such league. Or (3) by which any league of clubs participating in such a professional sport denies a member club the right to transfer the location of the franchise of that member club. Conditions the exemption, with respect to a football league or major league baseball league, on the football league or major league baseball clubs involved agreeing to meet specified requirements, including the establishment of a special trust fund into which the league will deposit ten percent of the amounts received under the joint agreement for the sale or transfer of the rights in sponsored telecasting of games to finance the construction or renovation of playing facilities, upon request of a local governmental entity.
Veterans Tobacco Trust Fund Act of 1998 - Establishes in the Treasury the Veterans Tobacco Trust Fund. Provides that if a law is enacted that provides for the allocation of funds received from tobacco product manufacturers for programs to reduce the use of tobacco products by minors and for health-care research, then there shall be credited to the Fund, without further appropriation, the amount of $3 billion. Makes such amount available to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for: (1) furnishing veterans' medical care and services. And (2) conducting medical, rehabilitation, and health systems research, with particular emphasis on research relating to the prevention and treatment of, and rehabilitation from, tobacco addiction and diseases associated with tobacco use.
Budget Surplus Dividend Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow, upon a specified determination of budgetary surplus, a credit equal to a certain percentage of a taxpayer's annual social security taxes. Provides for the use of budgetary surplus to reduce public debt and increase nondefense discretionary spending.
Cooperative Agricultural Programs Extended Retirement Credit Act of 1993 - Provides for crediting under certain conditions, service in certain Federal-State cooperative agricultural and other programs under the Civil Service Retirement System.
Federal Air Marshals and Safe Sky Act of 2001 - Amends Federal law to require the Attorney General to establish a Federal Air Marshals program consisting of Federal Air Marshals and Deputy Federal Air Marshals to provide maximum security at airports and on board commercial aircraft by enforcing Federal laws related to acts of terrorism, hijacking, or aircraft piracy and laws relating to violent, abusive, or disruptive behavior by passengers in air transportation. Requires the Attorney General to provide appropriate training and supervision of all air marshals, as well as appropriate background and fitness examination of eligible candidates as part of their certification. Requires the cost of such program to be shared by the airlines, State and local governments, and the Federal Government.
National Park Centennial Fund Act - Establishes in the Treasury the National Park Centennial Fund, into which there shall be deposited from the general treasury $30 million for each fiscal year from FY2009 through FY2018. Requires the President's annual budget submission for the Department of the Interior to include a list of National Park Centennial Proposals. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a standard process for the development of the list which shall encourage input from both the public and a broad cross-section of employees at every level of the National Park Service (NPS). Requires the list to, among other things: (1) give priority to proposals demonstrating long-term viability beyond receipts from the Fund. (2) contain proposals under each of the initiatives set forth in this Act. And (3) give priority to proposals with committed, nonfederal support, but to also include proposals funded entirely by the Fund. Specifies that the list include proposals that meet the requirements of one or more of : (1) an Education in Parks Centennial Initiative, (2) a Diversity in Parks Centennial Initiative, (3) a Supporting Park Professionals Centennial Initiative, (4) an Environmental Leadership Centennial Initiative, (5) a Natural Resource Protection Centennial Initiative, (6) a Cultural Resource Protection Centennial Initiative. And (7) a Health and Fitness in Parks Centennial Initiative. Requires, with respect to the Diversity in Parks Centennial Initiative, submission of a report detailing a service-wide strategy for increasing diversity among NPS employees at all levels and visitors to the National Park System. Makes, from FY2009-FY2018, unobligated amounts in the Fund available for projects authorized by this Act, but bars such amounts from being obligated or expended until 120 days after the annual submission of the list of proposals to allow for congressional review. Prohibits more than 30 of amounts available from the Fund for any fiscal year from being spent on projects that are for the construction of facilities the cost of which exceeds $5 million. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to encourage and facilitate participation in proposals from non-federal and philanthropic partners, and to accept donations. States that amounts made available from the Fund shall supplement rather than replace annual expenditures by the NPS. Requires the NPS to maintain adequate, permanent staffing levels and prohibits the replacement of permanent staff with nonpermanent employees hired to carry out this Act. Requires the Secretary to submit to Congress a report that includes: (1) an accounting of expenditures from the Fund. (2) a cumulative summary of the results of the National Park Centennial program. And (3) a statement of whether the NPS has maintained adequate, permanent staffing levels and what nonpermanent and permanent staff have been hired to carry out this Act. Repeals requirements under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 permitting the obligation of up to $30 million during each fiscal year for the acquisition of lands, waters, or interests in the National Park System for recreation purposes.
Makes eligible for the veterans' housing loan program: (1) members of the Selected Reserve discharged or released before completion of six years of service because of a service-connected disability. And (2) surviving spouses of reservists who die while on active duty. Repeals a Federal provision prohibiting guaranteed housing loans to veterans for property not served by a public or adequate community water and sewage system. Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to guarantee to refinance loans of veterans making energy efficiency improvements. Allows for the charging of a guaranteed housing loan fee for such loan. Provides for the guaranteeing of refinance loans made to change a mortgage from an adjustable to a fixed rate. Provides authority for guaranteeing loans made to purchase a manufactured home if the home displays a certification of conformity with Federal manufactured home construction and safety standards. Repeals certain inspection requirements with respect to such manufactured homes, as well as a reporting requirement concerning such inspections. Revises certain default procedures with respect to guaranteed housing loans. Excludes from certain minimum active-duty service requirements, for purposes of eligibility for veterans' guaranteed housing loans, those veterans whose discharge or release from active duty was the result of a reduction in force.
Cameron Gulbransen Kids and Cars Safety Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to: (1) evaluate devices and technologies to reduce child injuries and deaths occurring outside of parked motor vehicles in non-traffic, non-crash events or inside of parked vehicles when children are left unattended. (2) establish a database of, and collect data on, the number and types of injuries and deaths in such events. (3) evaluate technologies for detecting and preventing collisions with individuals and objects behind motor vehicles. (4) prescribe safety standards to require devices for detecting individuals and objects behind motor vehicles. And (5) prescribe safety standards for power windows and power sunroofs, including requirements for child-safe switches and auto reverse technology.
Biotechnology Future Investment Expansion Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that in the case of a biomedical research corporation, any owner shift involving a five-percent shareholder which occurs as the result of a qualified investment during the testing period shall be treated as occurring before the testing period. Defines: (1) biomedical research corporation as a domestic corporation not in bankruptcy which has a drug or biologic in certain clinical trials. And (2) qualified investment as a stock acquisition in a biomedical research corporation acquired in cash at its original issue. Requires a biomedical research corporation to meet a five-year expenditure test with respect to any qualified investment.
Exempts such accounts from estate tax. Excludes from gross income gain from the sale or exchange of property if, during the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange, such property has been owned and used by the taxpayer as a principal residence for periods aggregating three years or more. Limits such exclusion to the amount paid to an individual investment account during the one-year period beginning on the date of the sale or exchange. Provides for adjusting the basis of a residence acquired through the use of an individual investment account.
Comprehensive Fentanyl Control Act This bill amends the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) to modify the definition of quot, controlled substance analoguequot. To mean a substance that has a similar chemical structure and pharmacological effect to a schedule I controlled substance. Additionally, it modifies the treatment of controlled substance analogues. Under current law, a controlled substance analogue that is intended for human consumption is treated as a schedule I controlled substance. This bill replaces the intended for human consumption qualifier with a not a chemical substance subject to the Toxic Substances Control Act qualifier. Specifically, a controlled substance analogue that is not a chemical substance under the Toxic Substances Control Act is treated as a schedule I controlled substance. The bill modifies the drug quantity thresholds that trigger a mandatory minimum prison term for a defendant who manufactures, distributes, or possesses with intent to distribute fentanyl. It also establishes a consecutive mandatory prison term for a defendant who commits a drug offense involving a detectable amount of heroin or fentanyl. The bill allows the Drug Enforcement Administration to temporarily place a substance into schedule I if it reasonably believes that the substance: (1) is a synthetic opioid analgesic, (2) is the object of clandestine importation, manufacture, or distribution. And (3) poses an imminent hazard to public health and safety. Finally, the bill makes it a crime to knowingly mail to an unauthorized person equipment that may be used to manufacture counterfeit controlled substances.
Plan B for Plan B Act of 2005 - Requires the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to approve or disapprove within 30 days the supplemental new drug application submitted by Women's Capital Corporation for Plan B , as amended by a formal response to the Food and Drug Administration's non-approvable determination, that would switch the drug from prescription-only to nonprescription status for women 16 years or older. Deems the Commissioner as having approved the application if the deadline is not met and continues such approval unless the Commissioner publishes in the Federal Register a determination to approve or disapprove the application.
Coordinating Assistance for TANF Recipients Act This bill amends part A (TANF) of the Social Security Act to direct the Department of Health and Human Services to make grants to states to conduct demonstration projects designed to implement and evaluate strategies to provide coordinated case management to help individuals receiving TANF assistance to increase their employment and self-sufficiency.
Lebanon and Syria Liberation Act - States that US sanctions, controls, and regulations relating to Syria shall remain in effect until the President certifies that: (1) Syria has ceased support for terrorism, has dismantled biological, chemical, or nuclear weapons programs and has committed to combat their proliferation, has withdrawn from Lebanon and respects the boundaries and sovereignty of all neighboring countries, and upholds human rights and civil liberties. And (2) sovereignty has been restored to Lebanon. Imposes specified trade, assistance, and military sanctions, as appropriate, on persons or countries that transfer goods or technology so as to contribute to Syria's biological, chemical, nuclear, or advanced conventional weapons programs. Sets forth diplomatic measures intended to achieve such nonproliferation. Directs the President to provide assistance to support a democratic transition in Syria and the restoration of sovereign, democratic rule in Lebanon. Authorizes appropriations.
Medicaid Mammography Coverage Act of 1993 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to provide Medicaid coverage of screening mammographies for women age 35 and older. Varies the permissible frequency of such covered tests on the basis of a woman's age and her risk of developing breast cancer. Directs the Secretary to periodically review and revise permissible frequencies of such tests.
Uterine Fibroid Research and Education Act of 2003 - Directs the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to expand, intensify, and coordinate programs for the conduct and support of research with respect to uterine fibroids. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop and disseminate to the public information regarding uterine fibroids, including on: (1) the elevated risk for minority women. And (2) the availability of a range of treatment options. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, to develop and disseminate to health care providers information on uterine fibroids, including on: (1) the elevated risk for minority women, and (2) and treatment options.
Dietary Supplement Full Implementation and Enforcement Act of 2010 - Authorizes appropriations for FY2011-FY2014 to carry out the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA) and other provisions under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) that apply to dietary supplements. Requires the allocation of funds appropriated to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for FY2010 for the purpose of enhancing food safety to be expended to effectively and fully implement and enforce DSHEA and other FFDCA provisions that apply to dietary supplements. Authorizes appropriations for FY2010-FY2014 for expanded research and development of consumer information on dietary supplements by the Office of Dietary Supplements at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to report to Congress annually on the implementation and enforcement of DSHEA and its amendments. Amends the FFDCA to require the Secretary to publish guidance that clarifies when a dietary supplement ingredient is a new dietary ingredient, when the manufacturer or distributor of a dietary ingredient or dietary supplement should provide the Secretary with safety information, the evidence needed to document the safety of new dietary ingredients, and appropriate methods for establishing the identity of a new dietary ingredient. Requires the Secretary to notify the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) if information in a new dietary ingredient notification is inadequate to establish that a dietary supplement containing such ingredient will reasonably be expected to be safe because the ingredient may be, or may contain, an anabolic steroid or an analogue of an anabolic steroid.
Amends the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 to authorize special immigrant status for certain Afghan or Iraqi translators or interpreters working with the US Armed Forces or federal agencies in Afghanistan and Iraq. Authorizes: (1) additional annual entrants, (2) adjustment to permanent resident status. And (3) eligibility for refugee assistance. Sunsets such special immigrant provisions.
Railroad Right-of-Way Conveyance Validation Act - Validates conveyances of certain lands in San Joaquin and Nevada Counties, California, that form part of the right-of-way granted by the United States to the Central Pacific Railway Company.
Military Survivor Benefits Improvement Act of 2003 - Adjusts the basic Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) annuity amount for surviving spouses, age 62 and older, of former military personnel to: (1) 35 percent of the retired pay of the decedent , for months before October 2004, (2) 40 percent for months during FY 2005, (3) 45 percent for months during FY 2006, (4) 50 percent for months during FY 2007. And (5) 55 percent for months after FY 2007. Adjusts similarly percentage amounts with respect to survivors of reserve personnel and survivors of persons who die while on active duty. Provides a corresponding phased elimination of the SBP supplemental annuity authorized to be provided to such surviving spouses. Requires periodic recomputation of: (1) annuity amounts beginning in October 2004. And (2) retired pay reductions for supplemental survivor annuities. Provides a one-year open enrollment period for SBP participation, commencing October 1, 2004, for those currently not participating, those electing to increase current coverage, and those wishing to participate in the supplemental SBP. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to require appropriate premiums for SBP participation.
San Juan County Settlement Implementation Act of 2016 This bill authorizes the Department of the Interior to retire any coal preference right lease application for which it has made an affirmative commercial quantities determination by: issuing bidding rights in exchange for relinquishment of the application, and making a payment to the relevant state of 50 of the dollar amount of any bidding right subsequently used in lieu of any monetary bonus in a coal lease sale or of rental or royalty under a federal coal lease. Interior shall make such payments from amounts that would otherwise be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts under the Mineral Leasing Act. The bill declares such bidding rights fully transferable to any other person. The bill cancels specified land selections made by the Navajo Nation pursuant to the Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement Act of 1974. Subject to specified exclusions, the Navajo Nation may make new land selections to replace those canceled. The bill designates approximately 7,242 acres of land as the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness and incorporates approximately 2,250 acres of specified federal land into the BistiDe-Na-Zin Wilderness.
Closing the Pre-Paid Mobile Device Security Gap Act of 2016 This bill requires authorized resellers of pre-paid mobile devices or SIM cards to require purchasers to provide their name, home address, and date of birth. For in-person sales, an authorized reseller must require purchasers to display for verification: (1) a government-issued photographic identification card or a document acceptable under the Immigration and Nationality Act for employment authorization or establishing identity. And (2) any two of a Form W-2 Wage and Tax Statement from the Internal Revenue Service, a Form 1099 Social Security Benefit Statement or a Form 1099 from another federal agency, or a document containing personal identifying information that the Department of Justice (DOJ) finds to be acceptable. For all other sales, an authorized reseller must require purchasers to submit their: (1) credit or debit card account information, (2) Social Security number, (3) driver's license number, and (4) any personal identifying information that DOJ finds to be necessary. Authorized resellers must make a record of their sales that includes: (1) the information obtained from purchasers to verify their identity, (2) the date of sale. (3) the manufacturer and the wireless carrier of the device or SIM card. (4) any assigned telephone number or other identifier of the subscriber or account. And (5) if applicable, the international mobile equipment identifier number, electronic serial number, mobile equipment identifier, international mobile subscriber identifier, and machine address code. Within 30 days after a sale, an authorized reseller must transmit such record to the wireless carrier for the device or SIM card. Purchasers are subject to criminal penalties for providing false or misleading identifying information or documents. A civil penalty is established for authorized resellers or wireless carriers who fail to comply with this Act. The bill also prohibits and establishes criminal penalties for the sale of a pre-paid mobile device or SIM card by a person who is not an authorized reseller.
Authorizes a faculty member of a military service academy or Department of Defense professional school to secure Federal copyright protection for a scholarly work prepared as part of that person's official duties, but only for purposes of submitting such work for publication in a scholarly journal, publication, or other edited work for which such a copyright is required. Requires the faculty member to transfer such copyright to the owner or publisher of the medium for which the work will be published. Prohibits the acceptance of royalties or other compensation by reason of such copyright protection.
Student Aid Streamlined Disclosure Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to authorize, through September 30, 2008, the disclosure of certain tax return information to the Department of Education with respect to students seeking federal student aid.
Save Our Students Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Defense (DOD) to provide funds to states submitting specified plans for the National Guard to supplement state and local efforts to keep schools safe from violence.
Campaign Information Improvement Act - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to: (1) limit the cost to qualified candidates of broadcasting time for pre-election political advertising to the lowest charge of the station for the same amount of time for the same time of day and day of the week. (2) prohibit any broadcast licensee from preempting the use of any such time purchased and paid for by a qualified candidate, unless the program during which the advertisement was scheduled to appear is preempted due to circumstances beyond the control of the broadcaster. (3) reduce the pre-election period during which the lowest charge is effective from 45 days to 30 days before primary elections and from 60 days to 45 days before general or special elections. And (4) specify that for purposes of calculating a station's lowest charge, broadcasters must consider the charges made during the 60-day period prior to a primary or primary runoff election and during the 90-day period before a general or special election. Requires radio broadcasting stations, in order to have their licenses renewed, to make available without charge not less than 30 minutes of broadcast time during appropriate viewing hours to candidates for the House and Senate within the four weeks preceding election day for policy debates. Imposes the same free-time obligations on cable television operators of channels for public, educational, or governmental use.
Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to prohibit any person from importing, transporting, or exporting municipal solid waste for final disposal or for incineration in violation of the Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada Concerning the Transboundary Movement of Hazardous Waste or any regulation implementing such agreement. Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) perform the functions of the Designated Authority of the United States with respect to such importation and exportation under the agreement. And (2) implement and enforce the notice and consent provisions of the agreement as well as its other provisions. Sets forth factors to consider in determining whether to consent to the importation of municipal solid waste. Requires that the views of States be given substantial weight. Authorizes the Administrator to issue orders assessing civil penalties, requiring compliance, or both, or to commence civil actions in US district court to address violations of this Act. Limits civil penalties assessed pursuant to an administrative order to $25,000 per day of noncompliance. Authorizes persons subject to administrative orders to request a public hearing. Authorizes States to enact laws imposing limitations on the receipt and disposal of foreign municipal solid waste. States that no such action shall be considered to impose an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce.
World Trade Center Zone Tax Incentive Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to state that if there is a qualified headquarters relocation of an eligible foreign corporation, any qualified headquarters activities of the corporation conducted in the New York Liberty Zone shall be treated as conducted outside the United States for purposes of determining: (1) the amount of any tax or withholding tax. Or (2) whether the corporation has a permanent establishment within the United States for purposes of any applicable income tax treaty between the United States and any foreign country. Sets forth qualified headquarters relocation criteria with respect to transfers of employees and headquarters activities. Provides for termination and recapture of tax benefits for failure to meet such requirements. Defines expanded affiliated group for purposes of this Act.
Sportsmen's Heritage And Recreational Enhancement or SHARE Act - Amends the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act to establish the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council Advisory Committee to advise the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture (USDA) on wildlife and habitat conservation, hunting, and recreational shooting. Requires the Advisory Committee to report annually to the Secretaries and to Congress. Exempts the Advisory Committee from the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Abolishes the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council.
Veterans' Employment Transition Support Act of 2005 or the VETS Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow employers a general business tax credit for hiring veterans who served in a combat zone or a hazardous duty area and were honorably discharged from active duty. Sets the amount of such credit at 40 percent of the first-year wages of such veterans and increases the percentage of such credit for disabled veterans based upon their disability ratings.
Idaho Land Enhancement Act - Directs the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior, if the State of Idaho offers to convey specified State land to the United States, to accept the offer, and on receipt of title to such land, simultaneously convey to the State specified Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and National Forest System land . Requires the value of the exchanged Federal and State lands to be: (1) equal. Or (2) made equal by cash payment to the United States or the State. Sets forth requirements for the disposition and use of proceeds from cash equalization payments received by the United States. Requires the conveyance of certain easements or other rights-of-way. Directs the city of Boise, Idaho, to pay the administrative costs associated with such land exchange. Transfers administrative jurisdiction over specified BLM land in Shoshone County, Idaho, from the Secretary of the Interior to the Secretary of Agriculture. Considers the boundaries of the Idaho Panhandle National Forest and Clearwater National Forest, as modified by the exchange authorized by this Act, to be the boundaries of such Forests as of January 1, 1965. Revokes any public land orders withdrawing any of the Federal land from appropriation or disposal under the public land laws necessary to permit disposal of such land. Withdraws the Federal and State land from: (1) location, entry, and patent under the mining and public land laws. And (2) disposition under the mineral leasing laws and the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970.
Stop Tuberculosis (TB) Now Act of 2006 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to require the President to furnish assistance for tuberculosis (TB) prevention, treatment, and elimination. Gives priority to activities described in the Stop TB Strategy . Revises related fund use provisions. Authorizes the President, through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), to provide increased resources to the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Stop Tuberculosis Partnership to improve the capacity of countries with high TB rates and other affected countries to implement the Stop TB Strategy. Authorizes appropriations for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDCP) TB activities.
High School Data Transparency Act of 2011 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to require the Secretary of Education to collect the following information annually from each coeducational secondary school that receives federal financial assistance and that has an interscholastic athletic program: (1) the number, gender, and race or ethnicity of students that attended the school. And (2) for each team that competed in athletic competition, the number, gender, and race or ethnicity of participants, the total expenditures, the number, gender, and employment status of trainers, medical personnel, and coaches, the number of competitions, and postseason record. Requires such schools to: (1) make such information available to students and potential students, upon request, and to the public by October 15 of each school year. (2) ensure that all students at the school are informed of their right to request such information. And (3) annually provide such information to the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to: (1) ensure that such information is posted on the Department of Education's website, (2) notify all secondary schools regarding the availability of the information, and (3) issue guidance on how to collect and report the information required under this Act.
Requires high-need local educational agencies (LEAs) to use the title XII grants or loans they receive for repairs and renovations to reduce health and safety problems, and to improve the learning environment, with respect to: (1) roofs, electrical wiring, or plumbing repair or replacement. (2) heating, ventilation, or air conditioning systems' repair, replacement, or installation. (3) title XII repairs and renovations compliance with specified accessibility requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. And (4) other types of school repairs and renovations that the Secretary of Education may reasonably determine are urgently needed, particularly projects to correct facilities problems that endanger the health and safety of students and staff. Requires title XII grant or loan applicants to demonstrate to the Secretary's satisfaction that they lack sufficient funds from other sources to carry out the repairs or renovations for which they are requesting assistance. Provides for the following types and portions of title XII assistance: (1) a specified amount reserved for allocated grants to LEAs with high concentrations of students living on Indian lands. (2) ten percent of the remainder for competitive grants to high-poverty LEAs. And (3) 90 percent of such remainder for competitive grants and loans to high-need LEAs that lack the ability to fund urgent school repairs . Authorizes appropriations. Prohibits title XII assistance for repair or renovation of athletic stadiums or other structures or facilities intended primarily for athletic events for which admission is charged to the general public.
Interstate Transportation of Municipal Waste Act of 1995 - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to authorize a State Governor, if requested by an affected local government, to prohibit the disposal of out-of-State municipal waste in: (1) any landfill or incinerator subject to the jurisdiction of the Governor or the local government. And (2) landfill cells that do not meet the State's design and location standards and leachate collection and groundwater monitoring requirements for new landfills. Permits such Governors, without the request of such entities, to limit the quantity of out-of-State municipal waste received for disposal, or the disposal of such waste, at landfills covered by exceptions under this Act. Authorizes States to ban imports from large exporting States if the volumes of municipal solid waste exported by such States did not meet reduction targets. Prohibits discrimination against any particular landfill and against shipments of out-of-State waste on the basis of State of origin. Exempts from a Governor's authority to prohibit the disposal of out-of-State waste: (1) landfills that received documented shipments of such waste in 1993 and are in compliance with State laws relating to design and location standards, leachate collection, groundwater monitoring, and financial assurance for closure and post-closure and corrective action. (2) proposed landfills that, prior to January 1, 1993, received an authorization as part of a host community agreement from the affected local government to receive municipal waste generated out-of-State and a State notice of decision to grant a construction permit. Or (3) incinerators that received documented shipments of such waste during 1993 and are in compliance with performance standards under the Clean Air Act and State laws relating to facility design and operations. Authorizes States to deny permits for the construction or operation of a new landfill or incinerator or a major modification of an existing landfill or incinerator if: (1) the State has approved a State or local comprehensive solid waste management plan developed under Federal or State law. And (2) the denial is based on the State's determination that there is not a local or regional need of the landfill or incinerator in the State.
Stock Option Accounting Reform Act - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require an issuer of registered securities to show as an expense in its mandatory annual report the fair value of all stock purchase options granted to certain of its senior executive officers after December 31, 2004. Exempts small business issuers from such requirement. Amends the Securities Act of 1933 to require reporting of: (1) stock option expenses as a reduction of the total expense in the fiscal year in which they expire or are forfeited. And (2) as income any excess by which such reduction exceeds total option expenses for any fiscal year. Requires any accounting principle recognized as generally accepted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding the expensing of stock purchase options to comply with this Act. Denies recognition to any such accounting principle until the Secretaries of Commerce and of Labor complete a joint study on the economic impact of mandatory expensing of all employee stock options.
Sensible Estate Tax Act of 2008 - Repeals provisions of the Economic Growth and Tax Reconciliation Act of 2001 relating to the estate and gift tax. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow an estate tax exclusion of $2 million adjusted for inflation in calendar years after 2008, (2) revise the estate tax rates for larger estates. (3) restore the estate tax credit for state estate, inheritance, legacy, or succession taxes, (4) restore the unified credit against the gift tax. And (5) allow a surviving spouse an increase in the unified estate tax credit by the amount of any unused credit of a deceased spouse.
This bill amends the Communications Act of 1934 to direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to promulgate customer privacy regulations that require telecommunications services, broadband Internet access services, and interconnected VoIP services to: notify a customer about the collection, use, and sharing of customer proprietary information that is individually identifiable customer proprietary network information, personally identifiable information, or the content of communications. Obtain opt-in approval from a customer to use and share sensitive customer proprietary information about financial or health information, children, Social Security numbers, precise geolocation, content of communications, call detail information, web browsing or application usage history, or other customary proprietary information that the FCC determines to be sensitive. Not refuse to serve a customer who does not consent to the use and sharing of customer proprietary information for commercial purposes under a take-it-or-leave-it offer, develop data security practices. And notify customers of security breaches. The FCC must also implement strong protection for de-identified customary proprietary information to prevent re-identifying such information.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase the maximum taxable income for the 15 percent rate bracket. (2) replace the Consumer Price Index with the national average wage index for purposes of cost-of-living adjustments. And (3) adjust for inflation the exemption amounts used in calculating the alternative minimum tax.
Line-Item Rescission Act of 1993 - Amends the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to allow the President to transmit to both Houses of the Congress, for expedited consideration, one or more special messages proposing to rescind all or part of any item of budget authority provided in an appropriation bill. Requires that such special message be transmitted on the same calendar day the President approves the appropriation bill and be accompanied by a draft bill or joint resolution that would, if enacted, rescind the budget authority proposed to be rescinded. Sets forth House and Senate procedures for the expedited consideration of such a proposal. Requires the item of budget authority proposed to be rescinded to be made available for obligation unless both Houses adopt the bill rescinding such item within 60 days.
Delays from July to November 2000 the deadline for withdrawing the offer, or rescinding the withdrawal, of MedicareChoice plans for 2001. Amends SSA title XVIII part C to MedicareChoice program data collection requirements with regard to: (1) issuance of encounter data submission requirements, (2) post- stabilization guidelines. And (3) on-line enrollment. Prohibits the Secretary from making any changes in the enrollment and disenrollment instructions and related materials under MedicareChoice between enactment of this Act and January 1, 2002, except as may be specifically and only required to comply with a change in statute.
STEM Network Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to award matching grants to state-based STEM networks or similar organizations to increase elementary and secondary school students' achievement in the STEM disciplines, particularly in rural and low-income schools. Includes among grant uses: testing, sharing, and scaling up STEM education research, promising practices, and exemplary programs. Identifying state STEM education weaknesses and prioritizing strategies to address them, implementing rigorous common STEM education content standards, developing and implementing innovative STEM assessments, promoting and developing pre- and in-service STEM teacher training. Developing STEM career pathways and workforce education and training programs that reflect 21st century workforce needs. And facilitating the implementation of extended STEM learning times on school sites. Requires grantees to conduct periodic independent evaluations of their effectiveness in accomplishing those activities. Prohibits the Secretary from: (1) endorsing or approving any STEM curriculum designed for use in an elementary school, secondary school, or institution of higher education. Or (2) requiring a state, local educational agency, or school to adopt a specific STEM program or instructional materials.
Insider Trading Prohibition Act This bill amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit any person from trading securities or effectuating such trades while in possession of related material, nonpublic information, or while either knowing or recklessly disregarding that the information has been obtained wrongfully, or that the transactions would constitute a wrongful use of such information. It shall also be unlawful for any person whose own securities transactions violate this Act to communicate wrongfully to another person material, nonpublic information relating to either those transactions or the market for them if the other person: purchases, sells, or causes the purchase or sale of, any security or security-based swap or enters into or causes the entry into any security-based swap agreement, to which such communication relates. Or communicates the information to another person who makes or causes such a transaction while in possession of such information. The other person's ensuing purchase, sale, or entry while in possession of such information must also be reasonably foreseeable. A standard and a knowledge requirement are prescribed for acts constituting unlawful trading in securities. A person who has neither participated in, profited from, nor induced violations of this Act is shielded from liability even though that person controls or employs the violator. The Securities and Exchange Commission is authorized to exempt from this Act persons, securities, or transactions, subject to any necessary or appropriate terms and conditions, if it determines that the exemption is not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act.
Outer Continental Shelf Enhanced Exloration and Deep Water Incentives Act - Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to suspend any royalty or net profit share set forth in Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) oil or gas leases. Declares that no royalty payment shall be due on new production from leases located in depths of 200 meters or more until the capital costs directly related to such production have been recovered out of the resulting proceeds. Requires the Secretary to designate as frontier areas those portions of the OCS with respect to which the Secretary will exercise authority to modify royalty payment requirements.
Amends Federal bankruptcy law to establish a payment priority for retiree health benefit claims, with an aggregate limitation of $10,000 multiplied by the relevant number of former employees.
Burma Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2014 - Prohibits FY2014 or FY2015 funds from being made available for security assistance to the government of Burma unless the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that: (1) Burma has taken steps toward establishing civilian oversight of the armed forces, addressing human rights abuses by the military, and terminating military relations with North Korea. (2) Burma has taken steps to establish a fair and inclusive process to amend the Constitution of Burma, including the full participation of the political opposition and ethnic minority groups. (3) Burma has amended its constitution and laws to ensure civilian control of the military. (4) Burma is promoting peace agreements or political reconciliation and is addressing the resettlement and humanitarian situation of displaced persons. And (5) the Burmese military is improving its human rights record, taking steps to withdraw forces from conflict zones, and implementing a code of conduct. States that nothing in this Act should be construed to prevent participation by Burmese authorities in training on civil-military relations and human rights, as carried out by the Defense Institute of International Legal Studies, or to prevent US disaster assistance in Burma. Directs the Secretary of State to report annually to Congress on the status of military-to-military engagement between the US Armed Forces and the Burmese military.
Desert Community Lands Act This bill directs the Department of the Interior to convey, without consideration, to the town of Apple Valley in California the surface estate of specified land, to be known and designated as the Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area. The conveyed land may be used by the town to provide: (1) a suitable location for the establishment of a centralized, off-road vehicle recreation park, (2) the public with opportunities for off-road vehicle recreation. And (3) a designated area and facilities that would discourage unauthorized use of off-highway vehicles in areas that have been identified by the federal government, the state of California, or San Bernardino County, California, to contain environmentally sensitive land. Such land may not be disposed of by the town without Interior's approval. Interior may develop a special management plan for the recreation area to enhance the safe use of off-highway vehicles for recreational purposes. Interior shall convey, without consideration, the surface estate of specified lands to the cities of Twentynine Palms, Barstow, and Victorville in California. All land conveyances under this bill are subject to valid existing rights and do not include the mineral estate in the lands conveyed.
Commission on Effective Regulation and Assessment Systems for Public Schools Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to establish the Commission on Effective Regulation and Assessment Systems for Public Schools, composed of certain government officials, educators, and education policy experts. Requires the Commission to: (1) examine the effect government regulations have on elementary and secondary education. (2) recommend ways to align and improve those regulations to improve performance and innovation in education. And (3) recommend ways to improve and align assessment systems to provide reliable and meaningful information to parents, teachers, and students to improve student achievement, teacher performance, and innovation.
Preservation of Access to Osteoporosis Testing for Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2011 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to extend through 2013 the minimum payment amount for dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) services for bone mass measurement.
Northern Ireland Fair Employment Practices and Principles of Economic Justice Act of 1997 - Prohibits the importation into the United States of an article from Northern Ireland unless documentation is presented at the time of entry indicating that the enterprise which manufactured or assembled such article complied at the time of manufacture with the MacBride Principles of Economic Justice, a nine-point set of guidelines for fair employment in Northern Ireland. Requires any US person who has a branch or office in Northern Ireland or who controls an enterprise in Northern Ireland in which more than ten people are employed to insure implementation of such employment principles and compliance with this Act. Declares that nothing in this Act shall require quotas or reverse discrimination or mandate their use. Authorizes the President to waive the requirements of this Act in the interest of US national security.
Know Before You Owe Private Student Loan Act of 2016 This bill amends the Truth in Lending Act to revise requirements for disclosures in private education loan applications. Before issuing a private education loan for a student attending an institution of higher education (IHE), lenders must obtain the IHE's certification of the student's enrollment status, the student's cost of attendance, and the difference between that cost and the student's estimated financial assistance. Lenders must: (1) send loan statements to borrowers at least once every three months a student is enrolled at an IHE, (2) notify the relevant IHE of the loan amount and the student to whom it applies no later than the date funds are issued, and (3) submit an annual report to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) containing information the CFPB requires concerning private student loans. This bill amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 by requiring IHEs, before providing lenders with certifications, to determine whether students have exhausted their options for title IV assistance and notify borrowers of: (1) the availability of federal financial aid assistance, (2) their ability to choose their own private educational lender, (3) the impact of the proposed private education loan on their eligibility for other financial assistance, and (4) their right to accept or reject a private education loan within 30 days of the lender's approval of their application and to cancel the loan within 3 business days of its consummation.
Amends title XI of the Social Security Act with respect to the payment of cash benefits or administrative expenses from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund during any debt limit default period. Requires that during a debt limit default period public debt obligations held by the applicable federal fund be sold or redeemed in an amount not to exceed the sum of: (1) the face amount of obligations held by the fund which mature during the month in question. Plus (2) the amount necessary only to pay such benefits or administrative expenses, and only to the extent cash assets of the fund are not available during that period to make such payments. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury, in order to undertake the sale or redemption of public debt obligations held by the applicable federal fund, to issue corresponding public debt obligations to the public in order to obtain the amounts necessary to make such payments, notwithstanding the public debt limit. Declares that, in the event that the Secretary is not able to issue obligations to make all authorized payments because the public debt limit has been reached, the Secretary shall give equal priority to the following: (1) payments of principal and interest on public debt. (2) payments of amounts that the Secretary of Defense (DOD) determines to be necessary to continue pay and allowances to the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including their reserve components, who perform active service. (3) payments determined by the President to be necessary to continue US priorities of its vital national security interests. And (4) payments for items and services under SSA title XVIII (Medicare). Makes appropriations, for any period of lapsed appropriations, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Secretary of Defense to continue to provide pay and allowances to members of the US armed forces.
National Education Technology Corps Act - Amends the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 to establish a National Education Technology Corps as part of the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program, using VISTA volunteers and others with appropriate expertise, in partnerships to facilitate use of information technology in schools, libraries, and community centers. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish a business-related tax credit for employers for assistance to the NET Corps through their employees' services either as volunteers or as participants in partnerships.
Bill Emerson English Language Empowerment Act of 1997 - Amends Federal law to declare English to be the official language of the US Government. States that representatives of the Federal Government have an affirmative obligation to preserve and enhance the role of English as the official language of the Federal Government. Requires such representatives to conduct official business in English. Prohibits anyone from being denied Government services because he or she communicates in English. Requires that all officials conduct all naturalization ceremonies entirely in English. Directs that nothing in this Act construed to limit the preservation or use of Native Alaskan or Native American languages. Sets forth definitions for purposes of this Act.
Alisa's Law of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to withhold specified graduated percentages of a state's apportionment of certain federal-aid highway funds for FY2015-FY2017 if the state has not enacted and is not enforcing a law requiring the installation of an ignition interlock device for a minimum of 180 days on each motor vehicle operated by an individual convicted of driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence. Defines driving while intoxicated and driving under the influence as driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while having a blood alcohol concentration greater than or equal to the lesser of: (1) the blood alcohol concentration limit of the state in which the individual is driving, or (2) 0.08. Requires an ignition interlock device to: (1) require a driver to provide a breath sample before the motor vehicle starts, and (2) prevent a motor vehicle from starting if the alcohol concentration of the driver is above the legal limit.
Technology Investment Incentive Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) permit the expensing of certain technological equipment and computer software. And (2) include, for recovery purposes, as three-year property certain wireless telecommunications equipment, advanced services equipment, network or network system equipment, and research expenses for software development.
This bill declares that a specified portion of the Texas City Ship Channel, Texas City, Texas, shall not be subject to navigational servitude.
Consumer Price Index for Elderly Consumers Act of 2015 This bill amends titles II and XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to compute cost-of-living increases for Social Security and Medicare benefits using a new index in place of the current Consumer Price Index (CPI) for All Urban Consumers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics must prepare and publish, for this purpose,nbsp. A monthly CPI for Elderly Consumers that reflects changes over time to expenditures typical for individuals aged 62 and older.
Hurricane Katrina Financial Services Relief Act of 2005 - Expresses the sense of Congress that it is vital that insured depository institutions and insured credit unions continue to provide financial services to consumers displaced or otherwise affected by Hurricane Katrina, which includes the cashing of federal government assistance and benefit checks. Urges the Secretary of the Treasury and federal financial regulators to seek to educate insured depository institutions and insured credit unions on the proper application of the guidance on cashing of federal government assistance and benefit checks. Urges federal financial regulators to continue to work with such institutions and credit unions operating under extraordinary circumstances to facilitate the cashing of federal government assistance and benefit checks. Requires a federal reserve bank to waive or rebate any transaction fee for wire transfer services that otherwise would be imposed on any insured depository institution or insured credit union that, as of August 28, 2005, was headquartered in a qualified disaster area. Authorizes a federal financial regulator in specified circumstances to: (1) forbear from taking any action, on a case-by-case basis, with respect to any undercapitalized insured entity that is not significantly or critically undercapitalized. And (2) permit such entity, in calculating compliance with the applicable leverage limit, to subtract from its total assets an amount not exceeding the qualifying amount attributable to insurance proceeds. Identifies such an insured entity as one that: (1) derives more than 50 of its total deposits from persons who normally reside within, or whose principal place of business is normally within, a qualified disaster area, (2) was adequately capitalized as of August 25, 2005. (3) incurred reduction of its capital or net worth category as a direct result of Hurricane Katrina. (4) has established a recovery plan, or a capital or net worth restoration plan. And (5) has an acceptable plan for managing the increase in its total assets and deposits. Terminates the application of this Act 180 days after its enactment. Allows one additional 30-day extension by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the application period.
Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act This bill establishes a Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture. The Commission must: (1) report recommendations for a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture in Washington, D. C.. (2) develop a fundraising plan to support the establishment, operation, and maintenance of the Museum through public contributions. (3) obtain an independent review of this fundraising plan, including an analysis of the resources necessary to fund the construction of the Museum and its operations and maintenance in perpetuity without reliance on federal funds. And (4) submit a legislative plan of action to establish and construct the Museum. Directs the Commission's recommendations to address issues including the impact of the Museum on regional Asian Pacific American history-related museums, whether it should be part of the Smithsonian Institution, and the cost of constructing, operating, and maintaining the Museum and acquiring its collections. The Commission may convene a national conference relating to the Museum. Prohibits federal funds from being obligated to carry out this Act.
Consumer Learning through Electronically-Accessible and Reasonable Cost Information Act of 2013 sic or CLEAR Cost Information Act of 2013 sic - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require service providers, in order to be qualified to participate and receive Medicare payments under any agreement filed with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), to report to the Secretary payment data on quot, subsection (d) hospitals. quot. (Generally, a subsection Requires a subsection (d) hospital to submit to the Secretary data on the actual amounts it has collected from uninsured and insured patients over the preceding two years for each of the 50 most common diagnosis-related groups and ambulatory payment classification groups for which payment is made in both the inpatient and outpatient settings. Requires each annual report submitted to Congress by the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MEDPAC) to contain information on the percentage that charity care makes up of the total care furnished by hospitals and critical access hospitals. Amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury to post data on trends in the levels of charity care provided by certain hospitals on a publicly accessible and searchable website. Amends SSA title XVIII to require hospitals and critical access hospitals to include a link to such data on their home Internet websites.
Darfur Accountability and Divestment Act of 2006 - Supports state, city, and university efforts to divest funds from, or restrict investments in, companies that conduct business operations in Sudan. Directs: (1) the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to require all companies trading in registered securities that conduct business operations directly or through parent or subsidiary companies in Sudan to disclose the nature of such operations. And (2) the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to investigate the existence and extent of such companies' Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board investments. Prohibits US government contracts with such companies, with exceptions for companies whose activities are related to: (1) southern Sudan, southern KordofanNuba Mountains State, Blue Nile State, or Abyei, (2) the implementation of the 2006 Darfur Peace Agreement. (3) the provision of military equipment for nongovernmental organizations in the Darfur region of Sudan, the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS), or the United Nations. Or (4) the provision of humanitarian assistance that is of immediate and substantial benefit to the majority of people of the Darfur region of Sudan or the majority of people of eastern Sudan, including the Red Sea, Kassala, and Gedaref States. Authorizes a national security waiver of such prohibition on a case-by-case basis.
Federally Impacted School Improvement Act - Provides matching grants to local educational agencies (LEAs) for construction, renovation, and repair of school facilities in areas affected by Federal activities. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary of Education to distribute such funds as follows: (1) 45 percent for basic matching grants to LEAs eligible for impact aid assistance as serving children from Indian lands, if the number of such children is at least 25 percent of the total number in attendance. (2) 45 percent to the Secretary of Defense for basic matching grants to LEAs serving children from military bases, if the number of such children is at least 25 percent of the total number in attendance. And (3) ten percent for emergency non-matching grants in cases of health or safety hazards at facilities of LEAs which have a number of impact aid eligible children equal to at least 50 percent of their total attendance. Sets forth requirements for: (1) LEA eligibility, (2) basic grant awards and amount limits, (3) applications, and (4) emergency grant certifications, amounts, and priorities.
Fort Sumner Project Title Conveyance Act - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to convey to the Fort Sumner Irrigation District, located in De Baca County, New Mexico, all works, land, and facilities of the Fort Sumner reclamation project in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement between the United States and the Fort Sumner Irrigation District Concerning Principles and Elements of Proposed Transfer of Title to Fort Sumner Irrigation District Facilities. Requires the Secretary, before carrying out such conveyance, to assure compliance with all applicable requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Endangered Species Act of 1973, and any other law applicable to the property conveyed. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress if such conveyance isn't completed within two years after such requirements are met. Terminates, on the date of such conveyance: (1) US interest in and responsibility for the project and liability relating to the conveyed property. (2) a specified repayment contract between the United States and the District dated November 5, 1948. And (3) a specified payment obligation of the United States under the contract between the United States and the District for the forbearance of exercising priority water rights, dated August 21, 2009. Provides that all other terms of such forbearance agreement shall remain in effect for not less than 10 years after this Act's enactment. Provides that after conveyance of title under this Act: (1) the conveyed property shall not be considered to be a part of a federal reclamation project. And (2) the entity to which the property is conveyed shall not be eligible to receive any benefits, including federal project power, with respect to the conveyed property, except for benefits that would be available to a similarly situated entity with respect to property that is not part of a federal reclamation project.
Trade Adjustment Assistance Reform Act of 1998 - Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to authorize appropriations to the Department of Labor for FY 1999 through 2003 for trade adjustment assistance (TAA) for workers. Repeals the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Transitional Adjustment Assistance Program . Revises requirements for the filing of petitions for TAA for a group of workers adversely affected by imports. Authorizes employers of such workers, one-stop career centers, or State employment agencies to file on their behalf with the Governor of the State a petition for certification of eligibility for such assistance. Requires the Governor to: (1) transmit the petition to the Secretary immediately. (2) ensure that rapid response assistance and basic readjustment services are made available to the workers. And (3) assist the Secretary in the review of the petition. Requires the Secretary to review such petitions for certification of eligibility within 40 days of its filing. Adds as a factor in the Secretary's determination of the eligibility of a group of workers for TAA any shift in production by such workers' firm to a foreign country of articles like or directly competitive with articles produced by such firm. Directs the Secretary to collect and maintain certain information with respect to certifications of TAA. Revises enrollment in training requirements with respect to the payment of TAA to adversely affected workers to set forth certain time periods during which such enrollment must occur. Authorizes the Secretary to issue a statement to a worker waiving the enrollment in training requirements if it is determined that such training requirement is not feasible or appropriate for the worker, based on specified factors. Increases from 14 to 30 the number of days an adversely affected worker may have a scheduled break in a training program and still be treated as participating in the program for purposes of TAA eligibility. Increases the total annual amount of payments for worker training from $80 million to $150 million for any fiscal year. Authorizes the Secretary to secure for adversely affected workers certain employment services, including services provided through one-stop career centers. Provides for the coordination of employment services for adversely affected workers under the Job Training Partnership Act and the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. Authorizes an adversely affected worker to file an application with the Secretary for the provision of supportive services, including transportation, child and dependent care, and other similar services. Sets forth specified conditions with respect to such services. Makes unappropriated Treasury funds available in any fiscal year that TAA funds become exhausted. Authorizes appropriations to the Department of Labor for FY 1999 through 2003 for TAA for firms. Establishes the Presidential Commission on Workers and Economic Change in the New Economy to study and report to the President and the Congress on matters relating to economic dislocation and worker adjustment to such dislocations. Authorizes appropriations.
Energy Savings Through Public-Private Partnerships Act of 2013 - Amends the National Energy Conservation Policy Act to direct each federal facility energy manager to consider, not later than two years after completion of a comprehensive energy evaluation of a federal agency's facilities: (1) implementing any energy-saving or conservation measure that the agency identified in the evaluation that is life cycle cost-effective, and (2) bundling individual measures of varying paybacks together into combined projects. Requires the energy manager, as part of the Web-based compliance certification system, to provide reasons for not implementing life cycle cost-effective measures. Requires each agency to: (1) use the benchmarking systems selected or developed for the agency under the Act to track energy savings realized by the agency through the implementation of energy-saving or conservation measures and submit information regarding such savings for publication on a website of the Department of Energy (DOE), and (2) consider using energy savings performance or utility energy service contracts to implement such measures. Establishes a goal of entering into energy savings performance contracts or utility energy service contracts equal to $1 billion in each year during the 5-year period beginning on January 1, 2014. Requires each agency to report annually to DOE, and DOE to report to Congress, on progress towards achieving such goal.
Video Choice Act of 2005 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit a competitive video services provider (CVSP) from being required to obtain a franchise in order to provide any video programming, interactive on-demand services, other programming services, or any other video services in an area in which the CVSP has any right or authority to establish lines in or across public rights-of-way and such right or authority does not rely on, and is independent of, any cable franchise obtained by the CVSP. Allows the CVSP to be subject to the payment of fees to a local franchising authority based on the gross revenue of the CVSP in that area. Provides for the regulatory treatment of CVSPs.
Federal Emergency Management Agency Sunset Act of 1993 - Transfers all powers, funds, and personnel of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to the Secretary of Defense. Provides for the adjustment of the rate of basic pay of personnel transferred to the Department of Defense who are currently covered by Federal merit pay provisions. Continues all existing orders, rules, regulations, and agreements and pending applications for financial assistance or lawsuits concerning functions transferred under this Act.
Healthy Employees, Healthy Small Business Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain small business employers a refundable tax credit for a portion of their employee health insurance costs.
Military Reserves Small Business Relief Act - Amends the Small Business Act to require the Small Business Administration (SBA), upon written request, to defer repayment of principal and interest due on a direct general business or disaster loan made to a member of the reserves ordered to active duty during a period of military conflict, as long as such reservist: (1) received the loan before being ordered to such duty. And (2) is the owner, manager, or key employee of a small business for which the loan was made. Extends such deferral period until the later of 180 days after: (1) such reservist is discharged or released from active duty. Or (2) the date of enactment of this Act. Applies such assistance to periods of military conflict occurring on or after August 1, 1990. Authorizes the SBA to make disaster loans to assist a small business that has suffered or is likely to suffer economic injury as the result of the owner, manager, or key employee of such business being ordered to active duty during a period of military conflict. Provides a loan limitation. Applies such assistance to periods of military conflict occurring on or after August 1, 1990.
American Freedom Agenda Act of 2007 - Repeals the Military Commissions Act of 2006. Authorizes the President to establish military commissions for the trial of war crimes only in places of active hostilities against the United States where an immediate trial is necessary to preserve fresh evidence or to prevent local anarchy. Prohibits the President from detaining any individual indefinitely as an unlawful enemy combatant absent proof by substantial evidence that the individual has directly engaged in active hostilities against the United States. Prohibits the detention of any US citizen as an unlawful enemy combatant. Entitles any individual detained as an enemy combatant by the United States to petition for a writ of habeas corpus. Prohibits any civilian or military tribunal of the United States from admitting as evidence statements extracted from the defendant by torture or coercion. Prohibits any federal agency from gathering foreign intelligence in contravention of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Subordinates the President's constitutional power to gather foreign intelligence to such prohibition. Gives the House of Representatives and Senate standing to file a declatory judgment action in an appropriate federal district court to challenge the constitutionality of a presidential signing statement that declares the president's intent to disregard provisions of a bill he has signed into law because he believes they are unconstitutional. Prohibits any US officer or agent from kidnapping, imprisoning, or torturing any person abroad based soley on the president's belief that the subject of the action is a criminal or enemy combatant. Allows kidnapping if undertaken with the intent of bringing the kidnapped person for prosecution or interrogation to gather intelligence before a tribunal that meets international standards of fairness and due process. Provides that nothing in the Espionage Act of 1917 shall prohibit a journalist from publishing information received from the executive branch or Congress unless the publication would cause direct, immediate, and irreparable harm to US national security. Prohibits the use of secret evidence by the President or any other member of the executive branch to designate an individual or organization with a US presence as a foreign terrorist or foreign terrorist organization for purposes of the criminal law or civil sanctions.
Common Sense Superfund Liability Relief Act of 1997 - Amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to absolve of liability for response actions a person who does not impede a response action or natural resource restoration to the extent liability is based solely on arrangement, transportation, or acceptance provisions relating to disposal or treatment of hazardous substances and such activities only involved municipal solid waste or sewage sludge possessed by the person and the person is: (1) the owner, operator, or lessee of residential property, (2) a small business. Or (3) a small nonprofit organization. Adds provisions related to defenses to liability of an owner of after-acquired property, to deem a person to have made appropriate inquiry into the property's previous ownership and uses if the person establishes that an environmental site assessment was conducted which meets specified requirements and the person fulfills certain responsibilities concerning information compilation, exercise of appropriate care with respect to hazardous substances at the facility, and cooperation with those conducting response actions. Absolves from liability for response actions bona fide prospective purchasers to the extent liability at a facility for a release or threat thereof is based solely on ownership or operation of a facility. Gives a lien upon a facility to the United States for unrecovered response costs in any case in which there are such unrecovered costs for which the owner is not liable by reason of this section and the facility's fair market value has increased above that which existed 180 days before the action was taken.
Taking Account of Institutions with Low Operation Risk Act of 2015 or the TAILOR Act of 2015 This bill directs the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to: take into consideration the risk profile and business models of institutions subject to regulatory action. Determine the necessity, appropriateness, and impact of applying that action to such institutions. And tailor regulatory action so as to limit the burden of regulatory compliance as befits the risk profile and business model involved. The federal financial institutions regulatory agencies shall also consider: the impact that such regulatory action has upon the ability of the institution to flexibly serve evolving and diverse customer needs, the potential unintended impact of examination manuals or other regulatory directives that work in conflict with the tailoring of such regulatory action, and the underlying policy objectives of the regulatory action and statutory scheme involved. In addition, a federal financial institutions regulatory agency must disclose in every notice of a proposed and final rulemaking for a regulatory action how it has applied this bill. The Financial Institutions Examination Council shall report to Congress on the extent to which regulatory actions tailored pursuant to this bill result in differential regulation of similarly-situated institutions of diverse charter types with respect to comparable regulations. The agencies must also apply the requirements of this bill to all regulations adopted five years before the introduction of this bill and ending on the date of its enactment.
Provides that an existing permit shall not be effective if it authorizes dumping in violation of this Act. Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop standards for evaluating dredged materials to be used solely for remediation purposes at the Site. Directs the Administrator, in developing such standards, to ensure that the materials used for remediation: (1) contain significantly lower levels of contaminants than exist at the Site. (2) will significantly reduce contamination levels in biota and sediments at the Site. And (3) will reduce the number, extent, and magnitude of undesirable effects on marine life in and around the Site. Requires the goals of such standards to be to reduce the level of contamination at the Site to a level that reflects background ambient contamination levels in the ocean.
Environmental Risk Evaluation Act of 1995 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to: (1) rank sources of pollution with respect to the relative degree of risk of adverse effects on human health, the environment, and public welfare. (2) evaluate the private and public costs associated with each pollution source and the costs and benefits of complying with regulations designed to protect against risks associated with such pollution. And (3) evaluate the public and private costs and benefits associated with other Federal actions with impacts on human health, the environment, or public welfare. Requires the Administrator to identify opportunities to achieve risk reduction through modifications in environmental regulations and programs and other Federal actions with impacts on health, the environment, or public welfare. Directs the Administrator to: (1) identify the major uncertainties associated with the risks and explain the meaning of the uncertainties in terms of interpreting the ranking and evaluation. And (2) determine the type and nature of research that would likely reduce such uncertainties and the cost of conducting such research. Requires the Administrator to consider and estimate the monetary and other values of the benefits associated with reducing risk to health and the environment. Establishes triennial reporting requirements with respect to rankings and evaluations and requires such reports to evaluate risk management decisions under Federal environmental laws that present inherent and unavoidable choices between competing risks. Provides for review of reports by the Science Advisory Board prior to submission.
Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Amendment Act of 2004 - Amends the Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Act to provide for the acquisition of land for the Yurok Reservation. Provides that Federal law enforcement and tribal court funds and programs shall be made available to the Hoopa Valley Tribe and Yurok Tribe on the same basis as the funds and programs are available to other Indian tribes. Provides for recognition of the Yurok Tribe. Directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to enter into stewardship agreements with the Yurok Tribe with respect to management of Klamath River Basin fisheries and water resources. Authorizes appropriations for Yurok infrastructure development and for Yurok economic development. Amends the Klamath River Basin Fisheries Act to revise the membership of the Klamath Fishery Management Council to include as voting members a representative of the Yurok Tribe appointed by the Yurok Tribal Council and a representative of the Department of the Interior appointed by the Secretary of the Interior. Amends the Hoopa-Yurok Settlement Act to require the Secretary to enter into negotiations with the Yurok Tribe to establish a plan for the economic self-sufficiency of the Yurok Tribe.
Military Families Act - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General to adjust the status of an eligible alien to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence if the alien: (1) applies for adjustment, (2) is admissible to the United States as an immigrant, (3) pays the application fee. And (4) is physically present in the United States. Applies such provision to an alien who is: (1) a parent, spouse, child, son, or daughter of a living Armed Forces member or of a deceased Armed Forces member who died as a result of service-incurred injury or disease. Or (2) a son or daughter of a Filipino parent who was naturalized based upon active duty World War II service in the Philippine Army, Philippine Scouts, or a recognized guerilla unit. Defines Armed Forces member as a person who: (1) is, or was at the time of the person's death, a US citizen or lawfully admitted permanent resident. (2) is serving, or has served honorably on or after October 7, 2001, as a member of the National Guard or the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve, or in an active-duty status in the US military. And (3) if separated from service was separated under honorable conditions. Waives specified grounds of inadmissibility and authorizes the waiver of additional grounds of inadmissibility.
Worker Protection Against Combustible Dust Explosions and Fires Act of 2011 - Requires the Secretary of Labor to promulgate an interim final standard regulating occupational exposure to combustible dust hazards, which shall apply to manufacturing, processing, blending, conveying, repackaging, and handling of combustible particulate solids and their dusts , but shall not apply to processes already covered by the occupational safety and health standard on grain facilities. Requires such standard to be based on portions of the National Fire Protection Association Standards in effect upon enactment of this Act that: (1) apply to existing facilities. Or (2) call for source and dust emission control technologies. Requires such standard also to provide requirements for: (1) a hazard assessment to identify, evaluate, and control combustible dust hazards. (2) a written program that includes provisions for hazardous dust inspection, testing, hot work, ignition control, and housekeeping, (3) engineering controls, administrative controls, and operating procedures. (4) workplace inspection and housekeeping to prevent accumulation of combustible dust in places of employment in depths that can present explosion, deflagration, or other fire hazards, including safe methods of dust removal. (5) participation of employees and their representatives in hazard assessment, development of and compliance with the written program, incident investigation, and other elements of hazard management. And (6) providing safety and health information and annual training to managers and employees and their representatives. Requires the interim final standard to take effect 30 days after its issuance, and remain in effect until a final standard becomes effective, except that it may include a reasonable phase-in period for implementation of required engineering controls. Requires the Secretary to issue: (1) a proposed rule for regulating combustible dust explosions that includes the major elements contained in the interim final standard, and (2) a final rule three years after issuance of a proposed rule.
Amends the Clean Air Act to authorize the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to waive oxygen content requirements for reformulated gasoline upon petition of a State. Permits the Administrator to control or prohibit the use of any oxygenate (including methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE)) as a fuel or fuel additive if the oxygenate contributes to contamination of drinking water which may be anticipated to endanger public health, welfare, or the environment. Caps the annual volume of MTBE manufactured or introduced into commerce as a fuel or fuel additive, beginning in 2005, at the average annual volume estimated to have been manufactured or introduced into commerce in 1986 through 1991. Grants States certain authority to prescribe and enforce controls on the use of MTBE as a fuel additive. Directs the Administrator to establish regional performance standards to ensure that levels of reductions of toxic air pollutants achieved under the Reformulated Gasoline Program are maintained in areas where the oxygen content requirement is waived. Requires any regulation or modification of fuel properties made by this Act to take into account the need to provide lead time for refinery and fuel distribution system modifications necessary to assure adequate fuel supply for all States.
Administrative Law Judges Retirement Act of 2003 - Sets forth separate provisions governing Government and employee contributions, annuity eligibility requirements , early retirement, and annuity computation for administrative law judges under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees' Retirement System.
Freedom From Government Competition Act of 1997 - Requires Federal agencies to obtain all goods and services necessary for or beneficial to the accomplishment of their authorized functions by procurement from private sources, unless except as specified. Directs the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to establish a Center for Commercial Activities and Privatization within OMB to: (1) be responsible for the implementation of and compliance with the policies, standards, and procedures that are set forth in this Act or are prescribed to carry out this Act. And (2) provide agencies and private sector entities with guidance, information, and other assistance appropriate for facilitating conversions to use of private sector entities for providing goods and services on behalf of the Federal Government. Amends Federal law to require that each agency shall include in its annual performance plan the identity of each program activity that is: (1) performed for the agency by a private sector entity in accordance with this Act. And (2) not subject to this Act by reason of an exception, together with a discussion specifying why the activity is determined to be covered by the exception. Revises requirements regarding program performance reports to require each agency, in its annual program performance report, in the case of an activity not performed by a private sector entity, to: (1) explain and describe whether an activity not performed by a private sector entity could be performed by a private sector entity in accordance with this Act. And (2) if the activity could be performed by a private sector entity, set forth a schedule for converting to performance of the activity by a private sector entity.
Cancer Research Fund Act of 1997 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish in the Treasury the Cancer Research Trust Fund consisting of such amounts as are credited or paid to the Fund as provided for under the Internal Revenue Code and any interest earned on investment of amounts in the Fund. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to annually make available such sums as are available in the Fund to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for the conduct of biomedical, intramural, and extramural research. Prohibits an expenditure from being made during any fiscal year in which the annual amount appropriated for NIH is less than the amount so appropriated for the prior fiscal year. Authorizes the NIH Director to distribute amounts made available among the various research institutes and centers to conduct research that the Director determines is appropriate. Requires the Director to make awards from such amounts available for research on cancer. Requires amounts provided to an institute or center to be used to supplement and not supplant other research conducted with Federal funds. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow every individual to: (1) designate that a portion of any overpayment of tax. And (2) provide that a cash contribution , be paid over to the Cancer Research Trust Fund in accordance with the Public Health Service Act. Allows each spouse, in the case of a joint return, to designate one-half of any such overpayment of tax .
Neighborhood Integrity and Responsibility Act - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to require public housing agencies (PHAs) administering the section 8 housing certificate program to: (1) ensure that program rents are reasonable in comparison with private rentals. And (2) disapprove leases that are not reasonable. Requires PHAs to disapprove leases that are not reasonable under the section 8 rental voucher program. Makes PHA administrative fee eligibility dependent upon compliance with such provisions. Prohibits a PHA from providing section 8 tenant-based assistance for more than five units owned by any single owner. Revises tenant rent and monthly assistance provisions under the certificate and voucher programs.
Architect of the Capitol Human Resources Act - Directs the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) to establish, implement, maintain, evaluate, and report to the Congress annually on a personnel management system that: (1) ensures that applicants for employment and employees of the AOC are appointed, promoted, and assigned on the basis of merit and fitness after fair and equitable consideration of all applicants and employees through open competition. (2) provides an equal employment opportunity program which includes an affirmative employment program and procedures for monitoring progress by the AOC in ensuring a workforce reflective of the diverse labor force. (3) includes a system for classification of positions which takes into account the difficulty, responsibility, and qualification requirements of the work performed and which conform to the principle of equal pay for substantially equal work. (4) has a training program for AOC employees which has among its goals improved employee performance and oppotunities for employee advancement. (5) has a formal performance appraisal system which will permit the accurate evaluation of job performance on the basis of objective criteria for all AOC employees. (6) has a fair and equitable system to address unacceptable conduct and performance by AOC employees, including a general statement of violations, sanctions, and procedures which shall be made known to all employees and a formal grievance procedure. (7) has a program to provide services to deal with mental health, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, and other employee problems and which ensures employee confidentiality. And (8) has a formal policy statement regarding the use and accrual of sick and annual leave which shall be made known to all employees and which is consistent with the requirements of this Act. Requires all personnel actions affecting AOC employees to be made free from any discrimination prohibited by: (1) the Civil Rights Act of 1964, (2) the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, (3) the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. And (4) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Sets forth procedures for consideration of alleged violation of such provisions by AOC employees. Declares that any intimidation of, or reprisal against, any AOC employee or by any AOC employee, because of the exercise of a right under such provisions constitutes an unlawful employment practice which may be remedied in the same manner as are other violations described in this Act. Amends the General Accounting Office Personnel Act of 1980 to prohibit a current or former officer or employee of the AOC from being appointed as a member of the General Accounting Office Personnel Appeals Board. Authorizes the Board to consider and order corrective or disciplinary action in a case arising from an action involving discrimination prohibited under this Act. Subjects the final decision of the Board to judicial review. Allows an AOC employee to be awarded attorney's fees if she or he prevails in such case.
Return of Talent Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish the Return of Talent Program to permit an eligible immigrant alien and certain family members to return for up to 24 months to the alien's country of citizenship in order to make a material contribution to that country if the country is engaged in post-conflict or natural disaster reconstruction activities. States that during such absence the alien and family members shall be considered to be physically and continuously present and residing in the United States for naturalization purposes.
Local Control of Broadcast Towers Act - Prohibits the Federal Communications Commission from adopting a final rule or otherwise implementing any portion of a proposed rule regarding the preemption of State and local zoning and land use restrictions on the siting, placement, and construction of broadcast station transmission facilities. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to allow a State or local government to deny an application to place, construct, or modify such facilities on the basis that alternative technologies, systems, or structures are capable of delivering such services in a manner less intrusive to the local community. Places the burden of proving the appropriateness of proposed facilities on applicants. Allows a State or local government to regulate the location, height, or modification of such facilities in order to address the effects of radio frequency interference on local communities and the public. Prohibits the Act from being interpreted to prohibit a State or local government from requiring environmental or other studies, reports, or documentation concerning the placement, construction, or modification of such facilities.
Sets forth: (1) grant conditions. (2) a 50 percent non-Federal funds matching requirement, including in- kind contributions. And (3) a limitation on the total amount of such grants in a fiscal year. Requires such amount for FY 2001 to be distributed equally among the following institutions: (1) Mississippi University for Women, (2) Georgia College and State University, (3) University of North Carolina at Greensboro, North Carolina, (4) Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina, (5) University of Montevallo in Montevallo, Alabama, (6) Texas Woman's University in Denton, Texas. (7) University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma in Chickasha, Oklahoma. And (8) Wesleyan College in Macon, Georgia. Requires such amounts for FY 2002 through 2005 also to be distributed among such institutions if they remain eligible and wish to participate, on a uniform basis, for such fiscal years.
American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2015 It is the sense of Congress that it should consider a miscellaneous tariff bill not later than 180 days after the USITC and the Department of Commerce issue reports on any proposed duty suspensions and reductions. The appropriate congressional committees shall establish, and publish on their publicly available websites, a process for the submission and consideration of legislation for proposed duty suspensions and reductions as well as a miscellaneous tariff bill including them, consistent with certain requirements. The USITC shall report to Congress, by May 1, 2018, and May 1, 2020, on the effects of such suspensions and reductions on the US economy. The exercise of functions under this title shall not be subject to judicial review.
Eating Healthy at School Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to study and report to Congress on: (1) the effectiveness and efficiency of administrative review systems in holding local educational agencies accountable for complying with the requirements of the school lunch and breakfast programs. (2) the design and test of alternative processes and procedures that may improve the effectiveness and efficiency of such systems. And (3) any such alternative processes and procedures that reflect the results of such tests, and consider the practicality of implementation. Authorizes the Secretary to prescribe the regulations necessary to implement such alternative processes or procedures.
EQIP Improvement Act of 2018 This bill amends the Food Security Act of 1985 to modify the Department of Agriculture (USDA) Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). The bill modifies EQIP to: reduce the maximum federal cost-share from 75 to 40 for specified practices, repeal the requirement for at least 60 of the funds made available for EQIP payments to be targeted at practices relating to livestock production, and reduce the five-year EQIP payment cap from $450,000 to $150,000. The bill also requires USDA to: (1) coordinate the program with the conservation effects assessments carried out by USDA, and (2) revise the guidance issued to states for allocating funds to require data regarding environmental concerns to be used as a primary factor to prioritize projects. USDA must prioritize EQIP applications that consist only of the performance of certain land management or vegetative practices that are a cost-effective means of addressing the most pressing impairments that threaten to degrade or impair water quality, water quantity, soil or related natural resources within a local watershed, or a specific natural resource boundary.
Import Control and Safe Handling of Spent Nuclear Fuel Act of 1995 - Prohibits the importation of spent nuclear fuel unless: (1) the Congress has approved a repository with storage or disposal capacity for all the spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear reactors and atomic energy defense activities. And (2) such repositories are federally licensed and operating. Exempts from such proscription: (1) samples of spent nuclear fuel imported for testing and evaluation for national security reasons. And (2) imports from countries not authorized to possess nuclear weapons under the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, but which are known or suspected to be producing or developing nuclear weapons. Provides guidelines which a port authority may use to ensure the safe unloading, transfer, and shipment of spent nuclear fuel through its port.
Investigation Team Act - Establishes a bipartisan 829 Investigation Team to examine: (1) the events beginning on August 29, 2005, with respect to the failure of the flood protection system in response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. And (2) each flood control and restoration project that has been carried out since that date in the Gulf Coast. Prohibits any elected federal official from serving as a Team member. Expresses the sense of Congress regarding member qualifications. Urges the Team to: (1) review findings and recommendations of all studies conducted in the aftermath of the levee failures in Louisiana on or after August 29, 2005. (2) review the ongoing US exposure to flood control system failures, and (3) report on necessary legislative or regulatory changes.
Financial Security Credit Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an income-based tax credit equal to the lesser of $500 or 50 of the total amount deposited or contributed into designated savings products in a taxable year . A designated savings product is a qualified retirement plan, a qualified tuition plan, a Coverdell education savings account, a US savings bond, a certificate of deposit with a duration of at least eight months, a savings account, or other savings product considered appropriate by thenbsp, Departmentnbsp. Of the Treasury. The Internal Revenue Service must notify individual taxpayers who may qualify for a financial security credit that they have the option of an electronic direct deposit if they deposit any portion of their tax refund into a designated savings product.
Economic Recovery Adjustment Act of 2009 - Establishes within the Department of Justice the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate to conduct audits and oversight of the compensation of the officers and directors of entities assisted under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Authorizes the Advocate to assist the Secretary of the Treasury in the negotiation of TARP assistance in order to: (1) assure that fair and reasonable executive compensation is paid by entities receiving TARP funds. And (2) defend such agreements in the event of any challenge to the adjustments to compensation obligations. States that negotiated reductions in compensation under this Act: (1) may include vested deferred compensation. And (2) shall be in an amount that is fair and reasonable in light of the taxpayers' assistance, but not less than the estimated value of the compensation obligations that would face the estate or debtor-in-possession if the TARP funds had not been granted, and the entity had filed for bankruptcy protection. Requires the Advocate to negotiate a reduction in executive compensation obligations as a prerequisite to TARP assistance if, after an audit, the Advocate finds reason to believe that the assisted entity would have become insolvent if not for the receipt of TARP assistance. Establishes the Temporary Economic Recovery Oversight Panel to: (1) either approve or deny a proposed settlement. Or (2) upon petition of the Advocate , issue an order establishing an executive compensation program if no settlement is reached.
Civilian Volunteer Service Reserve Act - Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish the Civilian Volunteer Service Reserve to respond to domestic or international emergencies or other circumstances determined by the President. Permits a US citizen or legal resident over the age of 18 to enroll for a five-year commitment in the Reserve during which he or she shall be expected to serve in a full-time active duty status for 6 months. Authorizes the President to issue a voluntary call of action as an executive order to mobilize members of the Civilian Reserve to active duty status in times of emergency. Allows members of the Civilian Reserve to accept or decline a call to action except under extreme circumstances that require mandatory mobilization. Prescribes benefits and reemployment protection for members serving in full-time active duty status.
Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement Act This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act regarding the visa waiver program to prohibit a national of a program country who has traveled to Iraq or Syria at any time during the most recent five-year period from traveling to the United States without a visa. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) may prohibit a national of a program country from traveling to the United States under the program if the national has traveled during the past five years to a country in which: (1) a designated foreign terrorist organization has a significant presence, and (2) prohibiting the national from traveling to the United States under the program is in US national security interests. An alien must, at the time of application for program admission, have a valid, unexpired, tamper-resistant, machine-readable passport that incorporates biometric and document authentication identifiers that comply with standards of the International Civil Aviation Organization. Any alien applying for program admission must have a passport that meets these requirements. A program country must: (1) enter into and comply with an agreement with the United States to assist in the operation of an air marshal program, and (2) comply with US aviation and airport security standards. A country that does not fully implement information sharing agreements shall be terminated from the program. In determining whether to designate a country as a program country or whether a program country should retain its designation DHS shall consider: the country's capacity to collect, analyze, and share data concerning dangerous individuals. The country's screening and sharing of lost or stolen passport information. Whether the country collects, analyzes, and shares biometric and other information about individuals other than US nationals who are applying for asylum, refugee status, or another form of non-refoulement protection in such country. And whether a country shares intelligence about foreign fighters with the United States and with multilateral organizations. DHS shall: ensure that each alien traveling to the United States under an approved electronic system for travel authorization has submitted biometric information, including photographs and fingerprints, before boarding a US-bound conveyance. Prioritize implementation of these biometric requirements in program countries that have a significant number of nationals who have traveled to fight with, or to assist, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). And ensure within five years that such biometric information includes photographs and fingerprints. DHS may determine that a program country is in compliance with such biometric requirements if the country implements an agreement meeting specified criteria. Program fee provisions are revised.
Wall Street Fair Share Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on securities trading facilities, brokers, and purchasers for certain securities transactions. Sets such tax at .25 of the fair market value of the security traded. Defines security to include stock in a corporation, partnership interests, debt instruments, or interests in certain derivative financial instruments. Exempts from such tax an initial issue of securities, transactions in certain retirement, education, and health savings accounts, and transactions in mutual funds. Allows the purchaser of securities a credit against the excise tax for the lesser of the tax incurred or $250 . Requires withholding of excise tax amounts by the transferor of securities subject to the tax.
Indian Youth Telemental Health Demonstration Project Act of 2006 - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out a demonstration project to award up to five grants, of up to four years each, for the provision of telemental health services to Indian youth who have expressed suicidal ideas, have attempted suicide, or have mental health conditions that increase or could increase the risk of suicide. Makes eligible for such grants any Indian tribes and tribal organizations that operate one or more facilities: (1) located in Alaska and part of the Alaska Federal Health Care Access Network, (2) reporting active clinical telehealth capabilities. Or (3) offering school-based telemental health services relating to psychiatry to Indian youth.
Healthy Kids for Healthy Futures Act of 2009 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Public Health Service Act, and the Internal Revenue Code to require a group health plan to provide coverage for appropriate preventive care for a participant's dependent child who is not more than 18 years of age. Defines appropriate preventive care to mean medical care that meets the most recent Bright Futures Guidelines for Health Supervision of Infants, Children, and Adolescents. Prohibits a group health plan from imposing any cost-sharing for such preventive services. Prohibits a group health plan from taking specified actions to avoid the requirements of this Act. Applies the provisions of this Act to individual health insurance coverage. Excludes a plan from being treated as a high deductible health plan unless the requirements of this Act are met.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exempt for-profit and nonprofit employers, including public institutions of higher education, from social security taxes in 2010 for new employees who are hired after February 3, 2010, and before January 1, 2011, and who certify that they have not worked more than 40 hours during the last 60 days. And (2) allow an increase in the general business tax credit for the retention of such employees for at least one year at specified wage levels. Prohibits any carryback of unused business tax credit amounts. Appropriates to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund under title II of the Social Security Act amounts necessary to cover any reduction in revenues resulting from the tax exemptions provided by this Act.
st Century Media Responsibility Act of 2001 - Amends the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act to state that it is the policy of Congress to provide for the establishment, use, and enforcement of a consistent and comprehensive system for labeling violent content in audio and visual media products, including the appropriateness of such products for minors. Authorizes manufacturers and producers of interactive video game, video program, motion picture, and sound recording products to submit to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) a joint proposal for a system for labeling violent content. Outlines labeling system requirements, including that: (1) such product shall specify a minimum age for purchase and viewing. And (2) the label should appear conspicuously on the product. Directs the FTC to establish its own labeling system if a proposal is not submitted. Prohibits a person from: (1) manufacturing or producing such a product unless it bears a label meeting requirements of this Act. Or (2) selling such product to an individual under the minimum age specified under the labeling system. Provides civil penalties for violations. Renames the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act as the Federal Cigarette and Media Violence Labeling and Advertising Act.
Answer Africa's Call Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an additional income tax (surcharge) on adjusted gross incomes exceeding certain threshold levels . Makes such Fund amounts available without further appropriation for expenditures in connection with US commitments to the International Finance Facility. Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to modify the preferential trade treatment for agricultural products of beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries. Removes the limitation on eligibility for duty-free treatment of an agriculture product subject to a tariff-rate quota exceeding the in-quota amount, if the over-quota import is the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary sub-Saharan African country. Requires the President to: (1) assess a duty on such an over-quota product if its unit import price is less than the annual trigger price, (2) establish an annual trigger price for each such product. And (3) notify the beneficiary sub-Saharan African country concerned of such additional duty. Amends the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) to revise criteria for preferential treatment of apparel articles wholly assembled from fabric or yarn not available in commercial quantities in the United States to make certain yarn or fabrics eligible for use in the production of specified cut or knit-to-shape apparel articles. Modifies AGOA special rules for lesser developed countries with respect to preferential treatment for apparel articles wholly assembled, or knit to shape and wholly assembled, or both, in one or more lesser developed beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries regardless of the country of origin of the fabric or yarn used. Extends through FY 2015 the applicable percentage component of the preferential treatment formula established for FY 2005. Includes Mauritius in such extension, with no change in its current limitation of 5 of such applicable percentage.
Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to require the US Trade Representative (USTR) to make specified determinations about US rights within 30 days after a dispute settlement procedure is concluded if the USTR considers that US rights are involved under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or the GATT 1994 relating to products subject to intellectual property protection. Amends the Andean Trade Preference Act (ATPA) and the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (CBERA) to require the USTR to ensure a timely review and disposition of requests received from an interested party that the President reconsider the status of a country as a beneficiary country under such Acts. Amends the Trade Act of 1974, CBERA, and ATPA to revise the requirement that the President, when making a determination to designate a country as a beneficiary developing country entitled to certain trade benefits, to take into account, among other things, the extent to which such country is providing adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights. Requires the President to make such determination notwithstanding the fact that the country may be in compliance with TRIPS .
Safe Treatment of Polluted Stormwater Runoff Act or STOPS Runoff Act - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT), with the concurrence of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), to establish a federal-aid highway runoff pollution avoidance and management program to ensure that covered federal-aid highway projects are sited, constructed, and maintained in accordance with certain design standards to control and treat polluted stormwater runoff from federal-aid highways. Authorizes the Secretary to approve state covered highway projects receiving federal funding only if the state provides assurances that it will site, design, and construct the project in accordance with such standards.
Generic Drug Pricing Fairness Act - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require each contract entered into with a prescription drug plan (PDP) sponsor with respect to a PDP the sponsor offers to prohibit the PDP from entering into a contract with any pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) to manage the prescription drug coverage provided under such plan, or to control the costs of the prescription drug coverage under it, unless the PBM adheres to specified criteria when handling personally identifiable utilization and claims data or other sensitive patient data. Revises requirements for contracts with PDP sponsors to require that the PDP sponsor disclose to applicable pharmacies the sources used for making any update of the prescription drug pricing standard, and if the source for such a standard is not publicly available, disclose to such pharmacies all individual drug prices to be so updated in advance of their use for the reimbursement of claims. Requires the PDP sponsor, as well, to establish a process to appeal, investigate, and resolve disputes regarding individual drug prices that are less than the pharmacy acquisition price for a drug. Directs the Secretary of Defense (DOD), with respect to the TRICARE retail pharmacy program, to ensure that a contract entered into with a TRICARE managed care support contractor includes requirements to ensure the provision of information regarding the pricing standard for prescription drugs. Establishes criteria to which a carrier and a PBM must adhere under a contract or an approved plan under which the carrier has an agreement with the PBM to manage prescription drug coverage or to control the costs of such coverage. Prohibits a PBM under such criteria from: (1) transmitting to a pharmacy owned by the PBM any personally identifiable utilization or claims data relating to an enrolled individual who has not voluntarily elected in writing or via secure electronic means to fill that particular prescription at such a pharmacy. Or (2) requiring any enrolled individual to use a retail pharmacy, mail order pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, or other pharmacy entity in which the PBM has an ownership interest, or that has an ownership interest in the PBM, or give an incentive to encourage an enrollee to use the pharmacy if the incentive applies only to those pharmacies. Requires any contract or approved plan providing for a reimbursement standard with respect to a PDP to require the carrier to: (1) update the standard at least once every seven days to reflect the market price of a drug accurately. (2) disclose to pharmacies the sources used for making any such update. (3) make advance disclosure to those pharmacies of all individual drug prices to be updated if the source for a standard is not publicly available. And (4) establish a process to appeal, investigate, and resolve disputes regarding individual drug prices less than the pharmacy acquisition price.
Makes the Tribe and its members eligible for all special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians. Requires the Tribe to submit its base membership roll to the Secretary of the Interior for approval. Recognizes the Tribe's constitution and bylaws and governing body. Makes the Tribe eligible to have land acquired in trust for its benefit. Grants the Tribe jurisdiction over its and its members' trust and restricted land.
Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Studies Act of 1994 - Directs the Federal Trade Commission to study and report to the Congress on specified aspects of tobacco advertising and promotion targeted at women and certain ethnic groups.
Cut Energy Bills at Home Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual taxpayers a tax credit for the cost of a qualified whole home energy efficiency retrofit for the purpose of reducing the energy use of the taxpayer's principal residence. Limits the amount of such credit to the lesser of $5,000 or 30 of the qualified home energy efficiency expenditures paid by the taxpayer to reduce residential energy use. Sets forth requirements for a qualified whole home energy efficiency retrofit, including design, testing, and documentation requirements. Terminates such credit after 2016. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a review process for home energy efficiency retrofits, including an estimate of usage of the tax credit and an analysis of the average actual energy use reductions.
Providing Retaliation Options against Those Engaging in Cyberattacks Targeting the United States Act or PROTECT US Act This bill directs the President to submit to Congress a list of countries designated as state-sponsors of cyberattacks. A country shall be so designated if the President determines that the United States or a US person has been targeted in a cyber-enabled activity originating from or directed by a person located in a foreign country, and such activity is likely to result in or have contributed to a threat to US national security or foreign policy, or harmed US economic health or financial stability or a US person, or has the purpose or effect of: harming or compromising the provision of services by a computer or network of computers that support the United States or a US person in a critical infrastructure sector. Compromising the provision of services by the United States or a US person in a critical infrastructure sector. Disrupting the availability of a computer or network of computers owned or operated by the United States or a US person. Or causing a misappropriation of funds or economic resources, trade secrets, personally identifiable information, or financial information of the United States or a US person. The President may impose a trade-related penalty and take other actions, including assistance limitations, trade embargoes, and cyber counter attacks, with respect to a designated country. A country may be removed from the list of state-sponsors of cyberattacks if: (1) the President determines that it no longer meets the requirements for the designation, or (2) Congress enacts a law providing for such removal. A country that has been removed from the list by Congress may not be added back to the list by the President until at least one year after removal.
America Gives More Act of 2014 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) make permanent the enhanced tax deduction for charitable contributions of food inventory. (2) increase from 10 to 15 of the aggregate net income of taxpayers other than C corporationsnbsp. The amount of deductible food inventory contributions which such taxpayers may make in any taxable year. (3) permit a taxpayer who is not required to account for inventories or capitalize indirect costs, to elect, solely for purposes of computing the amount of the deduction, to treat the basis of any apparently wholesome food nbsp. As equal to 25 of the fair market value of such food. And (4) set forth a formula for determining the fair market value of such food. Makes permanent: (1) tax-free distributions from individual retirement accounts (IRAs) for charitable purposes, and (2) the tax deduction for charitable contributions by individuals and corporations of real property interests for conservation purposes. Allows taxpayers to treat a charitable contribution made after the close of the taxable year but before the due date of the tax return as being made in such taxable year. Reduces from 2 to 1 the excise tax rate on the net investment income of tax-exempt private foundations. Repeals the 1 reduction in such tax rate for private foundations that meet certain distribution requirements. Prohibits the entry of the budgetary effects of this Act on any PAYGO (pay-as-you-go) scorecard.
Establishing Beneficiary Equity in the Hospital Readmission Program Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSAct) with respect to the hospital readmissions reduction program under the inpatient (hospital) prospective payment system (IPPS). The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in determining a hospital's excess readmission ratio for purposes of making payments for discharges occurring during FY2016-FY2017, is required to make a risk adjustment to the ratio that takes into account both: (1) a hospital's proportion of inpatients who are full-benefit dual eligible individuals , and (2) the socioeconomic status of patients served by the hospital. The Secretary must base the risk adjustment under the readmission program for subsequent fiscal years on specified reports required by the Improving Medicare Post Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 as well as a report the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission shall submit on the appropriateness of using a threshold of 30 days for readmissions under the program. The Administrator of the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services must then incorporate report recommendations in carrying out risk adjustments for discharges occurring in such fiscal years in order to ensure that the most vulnerable populations are not unfairly penalized by the program. The Secretary shall consider the use of V or other International Classification of Diseases-related codes for potential exclusion of noncompliant patient cases when promulgating related regulations for FY2017. The Secretary must: (1) assess whether to exclude from the calculation of excess readmissions any patients whose clinical conditions or diagnoses may require frequent hospitalizations. Then (2) exclude, starting in FY2018, any relevant clinical conditions identified in the assessment recommendations when determining a hospital's publicly reported readmission rate and excess readmissions ratio. The Secretary is directed to make a payment adjustment to subsection (d) hospitals necessary to ensure that the implementation of this Act does not result in any increase in aggregate expenditures under the IPPS. (Generally, a subsection
HSA Accessibility and Portability Act of 2006 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize a health insurance issuer to elect, instead of complying with the guaranteed issue requirements , to: (1) guarantee continuation of coverage through individual health insurance for an individual who no longer qualifies as an eligible individual of the employer at a rate that does not exceed 150 of the standard individual rate applicable to individual coverage in the state. And (2) furnish information for the Secretary of Health and Human Services to monitor the impact of such election on access to, and affordability of, health insurance coverage in the small group market and in the individual market. Requires such an election to apply to all eligible individuals of that small employer at the time of such election, but does not require applicability to an individual who becomes eligible after such election. Allows an election under this Act to be made only with respect to coverage of a small employer under health insurance coverage that consists of a high deductible health plan and a contribution to a health savings account.
Requires the appraisal of properties under such provisions to use the Canyon Ferry Cabin Site appraisal with a completion date of March 29, 1999, and amended June 11, 1999, with an effective date of valuation of October 15, 1998, for the Bureau. Directs the contract appraisers that conducted the original appraisal having such effective date of valuation to make modifications to permit recalculation of the lot values established in the original appraisal into an updated appraisal, the function of which shall be to provide market values for the sale of each of the 265 Canyon Ferry Cabin Site lots. Provides for adjustments to the updated appraisal based on changes in property characteristics. Authorizes periodic updates of the fair market values through appropriate market analyses, subject to the approval of the Canyon Ferry Recreation Association (CFRA) and the Secretary of the Interior. Grants the Bureau and the 265 Canyon Ferry cabin owners the right to seek reconsideration, before commencement of the updated appraisal, of the assumptions used by the appraisers in arriving at the fair market values derived in the original appraisal. Requires the original appraisal to remain valid for use by the Bureau in the sale process for a period of at least three years from the date of completion of the updated appraisal to the extent consistent with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition. Grants nonpurchasing lessees the right to continue leasing through August 31, 2014. Permits such lessees to close under the terms of the sale at any time before such date. Removes all personal property and improvements, on termination of the lease either by expiration or by violation of lease terms, and requires the cabin site to remain in Federal ownership. Requires the Secretary to close on the property and prepare all other properties for closing within 45 days if no one bids for a property. Directs CFRA and the lessees to purchase at least 75 percent of the properties not later than August 1 of the year that begins at least 36 months after title to the first property is conveyed by the Secretary to a lessee. Requires the Secretary to allocate all funding necessary to conduct the sales process for the sale of property under the Act. Directs the Secretary to begin: (1) preparing for the sales process on enactment of the Act. And (2) conveying the property not later than one year after the Act's enactment. Requires the Montana Fish and Wildlife Conservation Trust, acting through the trust manager, to enter into a legally enforceable Recreation Trust Agreement with CFRA. Requires the Agreement to provide that: (1) the Trust shall loan up to $3 million of a property's sale proceeds to CFRA. (2) CFRA shall deposit such borrowed funds in the Canyon Ferry-Broadwater County Trust. (3) CFRA and the individual purchasers shall repay loan principal to the Trust as soon as practicable in accordance with a loan agreement repayment schedule. And (4) CFRA and the purchasers shall make an annual interest payment on the outstanding loan principal. Prohibits the trust manager, except as otherwise provided, from disbursing any Trust funds until August 1, 2001, unless Broadwater County, at an earlier date, certifies that the Canyon Ferry-Broadwater County Trust has been fully funded. Bars any closing of property until the Recreation Trust Agreement is entered into. Prohibits any closing of property until CFRA and Broadwater County enter into a legally enforceable agreement concerning contributions to the Trust. Provides that such agreement shall require that CFRA ensure that $3 million is deposited in the Canyon Ferry- Broadwater County Trust by August 1, 2001.
Provides for whistleblower protections for airline employees. Declares that no airline employee (including a contractor or subcontractor of the Federal Aviation Administration shall be liable: (1) for commencing, testifying at, or participating in, a proceeding conducted by the Secretary of Transportation or the Administrator of the FAA or a related action. Or (2) for refusing to violate or assist in the violation of any law or regulation in the course of employment, if such refusal is based on a reasonable belief that the law would be violated. Prohibits an air carrier, contractor, or subcontractor from discriminating against such an employee. Sets forth Department of Labor complaint procedures for employees alleging discrimination in violation of this Act. Sets forth civil penalties for violation of such employee protections. Provides for judicial review for persons adversely affected by an order issued by the Secretary of Labor. Amends the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 to provide for the investigation, adjudication, and enforcement of whistleblower protections for FAA employees. Prohibits an employer from spending funds to implement or enforce certain agreements in Standard Forms 312 and 4355 of the Federal Government or any other nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement, if such policy, form, or agreement does not contain certain statements regarding employee protections with respect to certain disclosures. Authorizes a nondisclosure policy, form, or agreement that is executed by a person connected with the conduct of an intelligence or intelligence-related activity to contain provisions appropriate to the particular activity for which such document is to be used. Requires such agreement, at a minimum, to require that the person will not disclose classified information received in the course of such activity unless specifically authorized to do so by the Government. Requires such nondisclosure agreements to clarify that they do not bar disclosures to the Congress or to an authorized official of an executive agency or the Department of Justice that are essential to reporting a substantial violation of law. Authorizes an airline employee, former employee, or applicant for employment that has been discriminated against in violation of certain whistleblower protections to bring a civil action for relief in the appropriate US district court.
Common Sense Campaign Reform Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit of up to $100 for qualified congressional campaign contributions. Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to reduce the ceiling on multicandidate political committee (PAC) contributions to candidates for Federal office. Increases the ceiling on contributions to such candidates by persons other than PACs. Prohibits a candidate for Federal office from establishing, maintaining, financing, or controlling a political committee other than the principal campaign committee. Prohibits contributions between PACs. Requires the authorized committee of a candidate to include in the report of contributions to such committee certain identifying information of contributors of more than $25. Requires a separate segregated fund established by a national bank, corporation, or labor organization that is a PAC to include in its name the name of the establishing entity. Requires the candidate to sign any required reports.
Spread Pricing Liquidity Act of 2013 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 concerning the national market system for securities to authorize the board of directors of an issuer with a public float of $500 million or less to select to have the issuer's securities quoted and traded using an increment (tick) of either $0.05 or $0.10. Prohibits selection of the $0.05 tick unless the average trading price in the most recent 1-month period for the securities of an issuer is between $1 and $2. Limits the tick selection to $0.05 for the issuer of any such security. Prescribes trading requirements. Permits a issuer that has made the selection under this Act to choose to opt out at any time after the six-month period beginning on the date the selection was made. States that, if the public float of an issuer that has made such a tick selection rises above $500 million , or its average daily trading volume rises above $500 million, then after the end of the 3-month period beginning on the date of such occurrence the issuer: (1) shall no longer be considered to have made the tick selection. And (2) shall be ineligible to make such a tick selection for 2 years after such 3-month period. Directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to study the quoting and trading of securities in increments of $0.05 and $0.10, and the extent to which such system increases liquidity by incentivizing capital commitment, research coverage, and brokerage support.
Telework Tax Incentive Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit of up to $500 annually for qualified teleworking expenses. Defines such expenses.
Scaling Up Manufacturing Act of 2012 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain start-up companies that are headquartered in the United States a tax credit for up to 25 of their costs for the construction of a manufacturing facility and for the purchase of specialized equipment for use at such facility. Defines a start-up company as any corporation or partnership that: (1) first has both gross receipts and qualified research expenses in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2012, or (2) has both gross receipts and qualified research expenses in fewer than three taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, and before January 1, 2018.
Decennial Census Improvement Act of 1997 - Requires the Bureau of the Census, in conducting the 2000 decennial census, to: (1) attempt to contact every household directly, whether by mail or in person. And (2) seek to make more effective use of State and local government offices and appropriate local groups to reduce the undercount and include in a specified report a description of the measures it intends to pursue to carry out such requirement. Prohibits taking into account compensation for services performed by an individual appointed by the Secretary of Commerce to a temporary position for purposes relating to the 2000 decennial census for purposes of determining either the individual's eligibility for benefits, or the amount of benefits payable to an individual, under any Federal, State, or local program financed with Federal funds. Modifies Federal law regarding exemptions for reemployed annuitants and former uniformed service members to make such law: (1) applicable to service in any temporary position within the Bureau established for purposes relating to the 2000 decennial census. And (2) inapplicable to any service performed after December 31, 2000.
Office of Government Ethics Authorization Act of 1996 - Amends the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to: (1) authorize the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) Director to accept gifts for OGE use. And (2) extend the authorization of appropriations for the OGE. Amends Federal law to repeal the requirement that Federal buildings display the Code of Ethics for Government Service. Modifies postemployment restrictions on certain senior personnel. Modifies the level of pay applicable with respect to certain senior personnel of the executive branch and independent agencies.
Amends Federal law to authorize leases granted on lands held in trust for the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and on the Cabazon Indian Reservation in California to be for terms of up to 99 years. Makes technical amendments to specified laws relating to Native Americans. Exempts from Federal and State taxation funds distributed pursuant to the judgment in Jesse Short et al. v. United States or any other judgment of the US Court of Federal Claims in favor of individual Indians and provides that such funds shall not be considered as resources for purposes of reducing benefits under the Social Security Act or, except for per capita shares exceeding $2,000, any Federal program. Authorizes any funds provided to the Ponca Tribe of Nebraska for any of FY 1992 through 1998 pursuant to a self-determination contract to carry out Indian Health Service programs to be used by the Tribe to purchase or build health service facilities. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to extend the terms of specified Indian health care demonstration projects at the Oklahoma City and Tulsa clinics in Oklahoma through FY 2002. Amends the Indian Health Care Improvement Act to extend the authorization of appropriations for such projects through FY 2002. Amends the Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Restoration Act to direct the Secretary of the Interior to accept additional Oregon lands in trust for the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians for a reservation. Includes certain counties in Oregon in the service area of the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians for purposes of determining eligibility for Federal assistance programs. Amends the Michigan Indian Land Claims Settlement Act to exempt all funds distributed under such Act from Federal or State income taxes. Amends the Jicarilla Apache Tribe Water Rights Settlement Act to approve a specified transfer of water rights between the Jicarilla Apache Tribe and other parties. Amends the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988 to revise conditions pertaining to Native Hawaiian health scholarships.
Otay Mountain Wilderness Act of 1998 - Designates specified public lands in the California Desert District of the Bureau of Land Management as the Otay Mountain Wilderness. Declares that such designation: (1) shall not preclude Federal, State, or local government drug interdiction and border operations or wildland fire management operations within the Wilderness. And (2) is not intended to lead to the creation of protective buffer zones around the Wilderness.
Cocopah Lands Act - Provides that if the Cocopah Indian Tribe of Arizona transfers title to certain described land to the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary shall take it into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, if there are no recognized environmental conditions or contamination related concerns and no adverse legal claims to it, including outstanding liens, mortgages, or taxes owed. Considers such land to be part of the Tribe's initial reservation. Designates Yuma county, Arizona, to be the Tribe's service area for the delivery of federal services to enrolled members of the Tribe. Prohibits its use for gaming under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
Deauthorizes: (1) a portion of the project for navigation at Rockland Harbor, Maine. And (2) the portion of the Illinois Waterway project authorized by the River and Harbor Act of 1927 in the South Fork of the South Branch of the Chicago River. Redesignates a portion of the navigation project, Saco River, Maine, described as a maneuvering basin as an anchorage area. Directs the Secretary of the Army, by May 31, 2007, to publish a supplement to the major rehabilitation report for the Herbert Hoover Dike system, approved by the Chief of Engineers in November 2000, which shall: (1) evaluate existing conditions at the Herbert Hoover Dike system. (2) identify additional risks associated with flood events at the system that are equal to or greater than the standard projected flood risks. (3) evaluate the potential to integrate Corps of Engineers projects into an enhanced flood protection system for Lake Okeechobee, including the potential for additional water storage north of that lake and an analysis of other project features included in the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan. And (4) review the report prepared for the South Florida Water Management District dated April 2006.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Public Housing and Section 8 Rental Assistance Title II: Federally Assisted Multifamily Rental Housing Temporary Extension of Public Housing Reform Provisions Act of 1997 - Title I: Public Housing and Section 8 Rental Assistance - Amends the Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I to extend provisions regarding public housing ceiling rents, income adjustments, and Federal preferences for assisted housing. Amends the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Additional Disaster Assistance, for Antiterrorism Initiatives, for Assistance in the Recovery from the Tragedy that Occurred at Oklahoma City, and Rescissions Act, 1995 to extend the public housing demolition and disposition one-for-one replacement requirement. Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 to extend provisions regarding use of public housing modernization funding for mixed income developments. Amends the Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I to extend minimum rent provisions. Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 to extend certain provisions regarding the section 8 rental assistance program. Amends the Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I to extend fair market rental provisions. Title II: Federally Assisted Multifamily Rental Housing - Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 to extend authority for: (1) section 8 contract renewals. And (2) the multifamily housing mortgage restructuring demonstration. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to increase the number of units and extend the risk-sharing and housing finance agency multifamily housing finance pilot programs. Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 to state that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) authority to manage and dispose of multifamily housing includes the provision of grants and loans from the General Insurance Fund. Amends the National Housing Act to: (1) extend multifamily mortgage auction authority. And (2) authorize the Secretary to continue to make interest reduction payments on transferred mortgage loans under the rental or cooperative housing for lower income families program. Amends the Housing and Community Development Amendments of 1978 to authorize the Secretary to provide for the assumption of all regulatory rights and responsibilities in connection with the sale of a HUD-held mortgage.
Cell Phone Theft Prevention Act of 2012 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit a provider of commercial mobile or commercial mobile data service from providing service on a mobile electronic device reported to such provider as stolen by: (1) the person who holds the service account, if such person submits a copy of a report made to a law enforcement agency regarding the theft. Or (2) another provider of commercial mobile or commercial mobile data service required by this Act to inform all other providers of a device reported stolen and of any information necessary for identification of the device. Defines mobile electronic device as a personal electronic device on which commercial mobile or commercial mobile data service is provided, excluding devices: (1) for which the consumer purchases service by paying in advance for a specified amount of calling or data usage, or (2) with respect to which the consumer does not have a direct relationship with the provider. Directs providers to make available to account holders the capability of deleting, from a remote location, all information that was placed on such a device after its manufacture. Prohibits a person from manufacturing in or importing into the United States for sale or resale to the public a mobile electronic device unless it is: (1) equipped with a unique identifier that allows a provider to identify such device, and (2) configured to enable a provider to make available the remote deletion capability required by this Act.
Election Jamming Prevention Act of 2006 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit the use of telecommunications devices to: (1) prevent or obstruct the broadcast or exchange of election-related information. Or (2) impair or obstruct any other telecommunications device from being used to engage in communications containing election-related information. Defines election-related information. Provides a private right of action for injunctive or declarative relief against such violations .
Digital Coast Act of 2012 - Defines Digital Coast as a constituent-driven effort led by the Secretary of Commerce, through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), to provide an enabling platform integrating geospatial data, decision support tools, training, and best practices to address coastal and emergency management issues and enhance coastal economies and ecosystem services by helping communities with cost-effective and participatory solutions. Directs NOAA to establish and implement the Digital Coast to: (1) collect data concerning coastal elevations, land use and cover, habitat and submerged aquatic vegetation, parcels, planimetrics, socioeconomics, and human use. And (2) integrate other data sources for the broadest measure of coastal resource management constituents and applications. Directs NOAA to: (1) make such data and resulting products accessible via the Digital Coast and other related Internet technologies, (2) provide training on decision support tools developed under this Act, (3) document data to Federal Geographic Data Committee standards, and (4) archive the raw data at appropriate NOAA or federal data centers. Requires coordination and data sharing with states, US territories, local governments, nongovernmental entities, and other federal efforts. Requires the establishment of NOAA Coastal Services Centers to facilitate the development of products and services addressing the needs of local, state, and regional entities involved with coastal and ocean decisionmaking and to lead development and maintenance of the Digital Coast.
Revolving Door Sunshine Act of 1993 - Amends the Government in the Sunshine Act to require former Presidents, Vice Presidents, and senior Federal appointees, as well as former Members of Congress and senior congressional staff members, to file, for a certain period after leaving Government, periodic reports with the appropriate entity which disclose certain communications made and other actions taken by them during the reporting period. Requires such reports to be made public. Authorizes sanctions in cases of noncompliance.
Border Health Security Act of 2013 - Amends the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act to: (1) revise the duties of the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission to include cooperating with the Canada-United States Pan Border Public Health Preparedness Council and serving as an independent and objective body to recommend and implement initiatives that solve border health issues, and (2) authorize appropriations. Designates the Commissioner of the US section of the Commission as the Chair of the section. Authorizes members of the Commission and the Council to provide advice or recommendations to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), Congress, or any Member of Congress concerning issues that are considered by the Commission or Council. Requires the Secretary to award grants: (1) to eligible entities to improve the health of individuals residing in the US-Mexico and US-Canada border areas, and (2) for Early Warning Infectious Disease Surveillance to eligible entities for infection disease surveillance activities in such areas. Requires the Commission and the Council to each: (1) prepare a binational strategic plan to guide its operation, (2) develop and approve an operational work plan and budget based on the strategic plan, and (3) issue a biannual report to the Secretary that provides independent policy recommendations related to border health issues. Requires the Comptroller General (GAO) to conduct an evaluation of Commission and Counsel activities. Requires plans, systems, and activities supported under such Act for all hazard preparedness, and general border health, to be coordinated with authorities in Mexico, Canada, and the United States to the extent practicable. Authorizes the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response to coordinate with the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) in establishing a health alert system that: (1) alerts clinicians and public health officials of emerging disease clusters and syndromes along the US-Mexico and US-Canada border areas. And (2) warns of health threats, extreme weather conditions, disasters of mass scale, bioterrorism, and other emerging threats along such areas.
Fair and Speedy Treatment (FAST) of Medicare Prescription Drug Claims Act of 2007 - Amends title XVIII of the Social Security Act to require prompt payment of clean claims to pharmacies by prescription drug plans (PDPs) and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans . Defines prompt payment as within 14 calendar days from submission for claims submitted electronically, and within 30 calendar days for claims submitted otherwise. Requires payment of interest, also, if a payment is not issued, mailed, or otherwise transmitted within the applicable number of calendar days. Makes it unlawful for a PDP sponsor to display on any explanatory prescription drug information and enrollee cards the name, brand, or trademark (co-branding) of any pharmacy.
EMTALA Regulatory Improvement Act of 2003 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a procedure to notify hospitals and physicians when an investigation under the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) is closed. Directs the Secretary to establish a Technical Advisory Group to review issues related to EMTALA and its implementation.
Meat and Poultry Products Safety Improvement Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act, and the Poultry Inspection Act, respectively, to: (1) direct the Secretary of Agriculture to prescribe performance standards for the reduction of pathogens in meat and meat products, and poultry and poultry products processed in an establishment inspected under such Acts. (2) direct the Secretary, in the case of an establishment failing to meet such standards, to prohibit such establishment from labeling any meat or poultry product as inspected or passed. (3) direct the Secretary to prescribe by regulation that poultry, cattle, sheep, swine, goats, or equines presented for slaughter for human consumption be identified in a manner permitting traceback of holding premises. (4) authorize the Secretary, in the instance of a finding of human pathogen, disease, or residue at a slaughtering or processing establishment, to prohibit the transfer of meat poultry, or products whose human consumption may pose a risk to public health. (5) provide protections for employees who assist in achieving compliance with the provisions of this Act. And (6) require State reporting of food borne pathogen illnesses. Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act to direct the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to identify biological threats to the US food supply, and prepare a response plan. Directs the Secretary to study whether chlorophyl detector technology or other rapid detection technologies should be used by inspected establishments to detect E. coli bacteria and other human pathogens. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into contracts for related research and technology development.
Work Force Enhancement for Technology Transfer Act - Requires the Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, to direct Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology and, when established, Manufacturing Outreach Centers, to assist managers and other workers in US manufacturing firms in using advanced and modern technologies, through needs assessments, information, and training services. Requires the Secretary, through the Director, to assist such managers and other workers in such use by: (1) establishing an information clearinghouse on the best available training material and services. (2) encouraging US providers of such technologies for manufacturing firms to develop training material specifically designed for the managers and other workers responsible. And (3) establishing the availability of such specifically designed training material as an important criterion in assessing such technologies. Authorizes appropriations for a technology training clearinghouse.
Food Sharing Act of 2017 This bill amends the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to: (1) reduce from $9 million to $8.5 million the annual limitation on the total amount of grants that the Department of Agriculture (USDA) may provide under the Community Food Projects Competitive Grants Program, and (2) authorize USDA to establish a separate program to provide up to $500,000 annually for grants to establish and carry out gleaning projects. In a gleaning project, an eligible entity: (1) collects edible, surplus food that would be thrown away and distributes the food to agencies or nonprofit organizations that feed the hungry. Or (2) harvests for free distribution to the needy, or for donation to agencies or nonprofit organizations for ultimate distribution to the needy, an agricultural crop that has been donated by the owner of the crop. The eligible entities include public food program service providers, tribal organizations, and private nonprofit entities that meet certain requirements for experience, demonstrated competency, cost-sharing, and a willingness to share information regarding the project.
Electronic Funds Transfer Equal Consumer Protection Act - Amends the the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to treat as an error any electronic fund transfer affecting the customer's account regarding a transaction for goods or services not accepted by or not delivered to the customer, or not in accordance with the agreement made at the time of the transaction. Redefines electronic fund transfer to cover any transaction initiated through an electronic terminal, telephonic instrument, or computer, including transactions initiated through the use of a check card or a debit card. Revises requirements for a financial institution's discretionary provisional recredit of a consumer's account after receiving notice of an error. Makes such a provisional recredit mandatory, within one business day after receipt of such a notice. Revises requirements for prompt resolution of errors to authorize a financial institution to require a consumer to submit written confirmation of an oral error notice before it recredits provisionally the consumer's account.
National Park Service Entrepreneurial Management Reform Act of 1994 - Amends the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 to increase fees for admission to units of the National Park System (NPS) and other specified areas. Makes receipts from admission available, subject to appropriation, for authorized resource protection, rehabilitation, and conservation projects. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to establish a pilot project at Yosemite National Park that utilizes incentives, including waiving or reducing admission fees, to encourage use of public transit which serves the purpose of reducing vehicular traffic within such park. Revises provisions regarding the issuance of lifetime admission permits, including a limitation that such a permit entitles only the permittee and the accompanying spouse to free admission. Directs the Secretary to report to the Congress respecting areas where the Secretary determines that admission fees would be appropriate but where such fees are prohibited by law, and areas where such fees are authorized but not being collected. Increases the penalty for violations of rules and regulations regarding admission and special recreation use fees. Modifies provisions regarding the use of fees collected. Requires that specified receipts be covered into a special National Park Renewal Fund. Makes such funds available for resource protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance activities related to resource protection and visitor enjoyment in areas managed by the National Park Service. Repeals a requirement that qualified public or private entities selling annual admission permits reimburse the United States for the full amount to be received from the sale of such permits when or before the agency delivers the permits to such entity for sale. Directs the Secretary to establish reasonable fees for nonrecreational uses of NPS units that require special arrangements. Prohibits charging an admission or recreation use fee for entrance into, or use of, any federally owned area operated and maintained by a Federal agency which is used for outdoor recreation purposes, except as provided for by such Act. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) negotiate and enter into agreements with State or local governments, individuals, or other entities for the purpose of sharing costs or services in carrying out authorized functions and responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to NPS units. And (2) provide, subject to appropriation, the Federal funding share from any funds available to the National Park Service in carrying out such agreements. Requires any funds payable to the United States as restitution for damages to national park resources or property to be paid to the Secretary and made available for improvement, protection, or rehabilitation of damaged resources or property.
MMA Territorial Equity for Low-Income Individuals Act of 2004 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to treat Medicare-eligible citizens of Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands the same as low-income citizens in the 50 States and the District of Columbia with respect to the Medicare prescription drug transitional assistance program, and premium and cost-sharing subsidies under the Medicare prescription drug program. Directs the Secretary of Health and Himan Services to request the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences to undertake a study for a report to the Secretary and Congress on access of Medicare beneficiaries in territories to prescription drugs.
Iran Human Rights Sanctions Act - Directs the President to impose visa entry and financial sanctions on a person determined to be complicit in human rights abuses committed against Iranian citizens or their family members on or after June 12, 2009, regardless of whether such abuses occurred in Iran. Requires that: (1) the list of such persons required by this Act be made available to the public and posted on the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State websites. And (2) the President consider data obtained by other countries and nongovernmental organizations that monitor Iran's human rights abuses in preparing such list. Terminates sanctions upon presidential certification to Congress that: (1) the sanctioned persons have ceased complicity in human rights abuses. And (2) the government of Iran has released all political prisoners, ceased its killing and abuse of Iranian citizens engaging in peaceful political activity and prosecuted those responsible, committed itself to free elections and respect for human rights, and ceased broadcast interference.
Drunk Driving Repeat Offender Prevention Act of 2015 Directs the Department of Transportation to withhold specified graduated percentages of a state's apportionment of certain federal-aid highway funds for FY2018-FY2020 if the state has not enacted and is not enforcing a law requiring the installation of an ignition interlock device for a minimum of 180 days on each motor vehicle operated by an individual convicted of driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence. Defines quot, driving while intoxicatedquot, and quot, driving under the influencequot. As driving or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while having a blood alcohol concentration of 0.08 or greater. Requires an ignition interlock device to: require a driver to provide a breath sample before the motor vehicle starts, and prevent a motor vehicle from starting if the alcohol concentration of the driver is above the legal limit. Authorizes reduction of the 180-day period to 90 days if: the driver's license is suspended for a minimum of 180 days as a result of the conviction, and the period for installation of an ignition interlock device begins after the last day of the suspension.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to establish a taskforce within the Department of Education to recommend improvements to the study of modeling and simulation, and identify the core capacities that students in such programs should acquire. Authorizes the Secretary to award: (1) competitive grants to institutions of higher education (IHEs) for the enhancement of their existing modeling and simulation programs. And (2) grants to IHEs for the establishment of such programs. Requires grantees to raise, from nonfederal sources, an amount equal to 25 of their grants.
Comprehensive Peace in Sudan Act - Expresses the sense of Congress respecting the crisis in the Darfur region of Sudan. Amends the Sudan Peace Act to authorize the President to assist Sudan to support the implementation of a comprehensive peace agreement that applies to all regions of Sudan, including the Darfur region, and to address the humanitarian and human rights crisis in the Darfur region and its impact on eastern Chad, contingent upon a continuing certification to the appropriate congressional committees that the Government of Sudan is acting to: (1) ensure that the armed forces and militias are not committing atrocities or blocking assistance, (2) demobilize militias. (3) protect civilians, and (4) cooperate with aid workers and the African Union monitoring team.
Makes proceeds from such conveyances available to the Secretary for: (1) acquisition, construction, or improvement of National Forest System administrative facilities in Texas, or (2) land acquisition in Texas.
Highway Fairness and Reform Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation, beginning with FY2011, to carry out a direct federal-aid highway program to permit a state governor or chief executive officer, at least 90 days before the beginning of a fiscal year, to elect to: (1) waive the state's right to receive apportioned or allocated funds under the federal-aid highway program. And (2) receive instead a prorated amount of the taxes appropriated to the Highway Trust Fund which are attributable to highway users in the state. Requires a pro rata reduction of such tax-equivalent amount in order to fund contract authority for programs of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). Requires the Secretary to accept a state's election if: (1) the state has an interstate maintenance program. (2) it submits a plan describing the purposes, projects, and uses to which such amounts will be put and the federal-aid highway programmatic requirements the state elects to continue. (3) the state agrees to obligate program amounts exclusively for projects that would be eligible for surface transportation program funding. And (4) it continues to suballocate surface transportation program funds to urbanized and other areas using certain formulae and rules.
Education Flexibility Amendments of 1998 - Amends the Goals 2000: Educate America Act to authorize the Secretary of Education to allow all States to participate in the Education Flexibility Partnership Demonstration Act (Ed-Flex) program. Includes State and local programs for school technology resources under the Educational and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) among programs for which requirements may be waived under Ed-Flex. Revises State eligibility requirements for Ed-Flex. Requires States to: (1) have approved challenging content standards, challenging performance measures, and aligned assessments in place or have made substantial progress towards having an approved plan under ESEA title I. And (2) hold local educational agencies (LEAs) accountable for meeting the educational goals submitted in their local applications for waivers, and for taking corrective actions if they have not met such goals. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out the Ed-Flex program for FY 1999 through 2003. Sets forth accountability requirements. Requires the Secretary, in deciding whether to extend the authority of a State educational agency (SEA) to issue waivers, to review the SEA's progress to determine if it has: (1) established procedures for increasing the percentage of elementary school and secondary school teachers in the State who have demonstrated, by traditional or alternative routes, subject matter knowledge and pedagogical skill to provide effective instruction in appropriate content areas. And (2) decreased the percentage of elementary school and secondary school teachers teaching in high poverty elementary schools and secondary schools who do not demonstrate such knowledge and skills.
Common Sense Prison Work and Victim Restitution Act of 1998 - Amends the Crime Control Act of 1990 to require convicted inmates confined in Federal prisons, jails, and other detention facilities to engage in: (1) work for not less than 50 hours weekly. And (2) job-training and educational and life skills preparation study. Allows nonprofit entities to utilize the services of prisoners if opportunities otherwise provided by law for inmates to work are insufficient to meet such requirements. Directs the Attorney General to submit legislative recommendations to the Congress to permit Federal prisoners to perform work for private employers while minimizing the economic impact on the private sector of this expansion of the use of prison labor. Establishes in the Treasury a Fund into which shall be placed all proceeds and wages from prison labor. Directs that such Fund be used as follows: (1) one third to offset the costs of prisoner incarceration, (2) one third for victim restitution. (3) one tenth for payment into the individual prisoner's account to be paid upon his or her release. And (4) the remainder for payments to States and local jurisdictions that operate correctional facilities with prison work requirements that are substantially the same as Federal requirements for programs to benefit the dependents of prisoners. Directs the Bureau of Prisons to ensure that Federal prisoners: (1) do not possess, view, or read pornographic or sexually explicit materials. (2) are subject not less often than once each month to a combination of random and regularly scheduled testing for drugs and illegal substances. (3) do not possess microwave ovens, hot plates, toaster ovens, televisions , or VCRs. (4) do not possess or listen to music which contains lyrics that are violent, sexually explicit, or vulgar or that glamorize gang membership or activities, demean women, or disrespect law enforcement. (5) do not view cable television which is not educational in nature. And (6) do not engage in sexual activity. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) report to the Congress, one year after this Act's enactment date, on anticipated annual costs, for each of the five following fiscal years, of implementing a monthly drug testing program for all Federal prisoners. And (2) establish a program to utilize dogs in inmate work areas, living quarters, and delivery areas to detect narcotics . Amends Federal criminal code provisions regarding substance abuse treatment to require the Attorney General to ensure through the use of all appropriate and available incentives and sanctions that eligible prisoners undergo a program of substance abuse treatment. Requires the Bureau to place in a shock incarceration program any person who is sentenced to a term of imprisonment, with an exception. Limits the initial portion of the term of imprisonment to four weeks. Directs that an inmate who, in the Bureau's judgment, either does not successfully complete the required period of shock incarceration or is physically or mentally unfit to participate, be confined to that inmate's cell for not less than 23 hours each day during the portion of the term of imprisonment that would otherwise be spent in shock incarceration and, during the remainder of that term, be granted no privileges other than those required by law.
National Fab Lab Network Act of 2013 - Grants a federal charter to the National Fab Lab Network.
Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Amendments Act of 1993 - Amends the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 to direct the Secretary of Commerce to: (1) prohibit through 1995 the export of unprocessed timber from State and other public lands, or the purchase of such timber as a substitute for exported private land timber. And (2) administer such prohibitions. Authorizes a State, upon approval of the Secretary, to implement a program in lieu of the Federal one. Establishes civil penalties for violations of this Act.
Flu Protection Act of 2005 - Amends the Public Health Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to conduct, annually, a public influenza awareness campaign and education and outreach efforts preceding the flu season. Requires the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services to urge early and full preordering of the influenza vaccine by Medicare providers. Requires the Director to: (1) work with the Administrator to publish influenza immunization rates among Medicare recipients. (2) support the development of State adult immunization programs that emphasize improving influenza vaccine delivery to high-risk populations and the general population. And (3) work with appropriate agencies to assess the efficacy of the influenza vaccine. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish a vaccine manufacturing facilities investment tax credit for property placed in service by December 31, 2009. Requires the Secretary to: (1) enter into contracts with manufacturers to produce additional necessary doses of the influenza vaccine. And (2) encourage States to develop a contingency plan for maximizing influenza immunization for high-risk populations in the event of a delay or shortage of the vaccine. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Vaccine Program, to establish a protocol to prevent, prepare for, and respond to an influenza pandemic or epidemic.
Disaster-Affected Homeowners Notification Act of 2013 - Requires certain notifications if, in connection with any major disaster declared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Director of the Federal Housing Agency, the Federal National Mortgage Association , or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation makes available forbearance relief with respect to any covered mortgage, or any such agency head or enterprise issues any notice or guidelines to mortgagees or servicers recommending or requiring such relief. Directs the applicable agency head to provide: (1) to each mortgagor under a covered mortgage direct notification of the forbearance relief made available, required, or recommended. And (2) for areas subject to such disaster declaration, community-wide notification of such relief. Directs the applicable agency heads to issue guidelines regarding measures designed to provide notice and awareness of forbearance relief.
Solar Fuels Innovation Act This bill amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 by requiring the Department of Energy (DOE) to carry out the Solar Fuels Basic Research Initiative to expand scientific knowledge about converting solar energy into chemical energy. Specifically, DOE must support research about: (1) replicating natural photosynthetic processes in artificial photosynthesis processes, and (2) generating a variety of fuels produced from sunlight through artificial photosynthesis. Appropriations authorized under the bill may not be obligated or expended for commercial application of energy technology. The bill repeals a requirement for DOE to support a research and development program in catalysis science .
Provides funding for Department Hepatitis C detection and treatment programs, beginning with FY 2001. Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop and implement a standardized Department policy with respect to such virus. And (2) annually take appropriate outreach actions to notify untested veterans. Directs the Secretary to establish at least one and no more than three Hepatitis C centers of excellence within the Department health care network. Provides centers' funding.
Sets forth certain registration and reporting requirements with respect to US companies doing business in China or Tibet.
Cigarette Fire Safety Act of 2004 - Requires the Consumer Product Safety Commission to prescribe fire safety standards for cigarettes that, except as provided in this Act, are substantively the same as specified standards promulgated by the State of New York. Directs sponsors of testing methodologies employed under this Act to notify the Commission of any modifications in such methodologies. Authorizes the Commission to modify established fire safety standards to incorporate modifications that will enhance those standards. Requires fire safety standards promulgated under this Act to be treated as consumer product safety standards, and directs that cigarettes shall be treated as consumer products, under the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA). Precludes the preemption by this Act of the New York standard or more stringent fire safety standards for cigarettes promulgated by any State. Makes the CPSA's private remedy provisions applicable to fire safety standards promulgated under this Act. Denies the Commission any jurisdiction over tobacco or tobacco products except as provided in this Act.
Seniors Real Property Tax Relief Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow a deduction for State and local real property taxes paid by certain taxpayers aged 65 or older who do not itemize their deductions. And (2) provide for the establishment of senior citizen real property tax accounts .
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend, through December 31, 2005, the duty on certain tire manufacturing equipment.
No Qualified Teacher Left Behind Act of 2004 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) with respect to teacher qualifications. Revises the definition of highly qualified teacher, in the case of middle or secondary school teachers who are new to the profession. Includes consideration of any professional development being pursued, in determining such qualifications for elementary, middle, or secondary school teachers who are not new to the profession. Provides for rural school districts: (1) an extension of a deadline for having highly qualified teachers. And (2) an authorization of additional appropriations for grants for teacher recruitment, retention, and professional development. Revises requirements for qualified teachers under ESEA title I part A (I-A) programs for disadvantaged students to: (1) apply only to teachers of core subjects. And (2) eliminate reference to the proportion of inexperienced teachers. Requires all ESEA grantees, whether under I-A or not, to meet specified qualification deadlines for all teachers of core subjects whom they employ.
Equal Opportunity for Residential Representation Act This bill requires the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD's) Office of Community Planning and Development to carry out a program to make grants to organizations to provide legal services and other related supportive services on behalf of low-income families who reside in a rental dwelling unit and have an income that does not exceed 80 of the median income for the area in which the family resides. The following organizations may receive such grants: nonprofit organizations that provide legal services to persons or families of limited income, including organizations that receive funding from the Legal Services Corporation, legal clinics sponsored by law schools or other organizations. And such other entities as HUD considers appropriate. These grants may be used only to provide legal services and other related supportive services in connection with: (1) an eviction of such a family, (2) the prevention of such eviction, (3) a dispute between the landlord and a tenant who is a family member, or (4) enforcing the family's legal rights regarding tenancy or fair housing. Funds for such program shall be derived from revenues resulting from amendments by this bill to the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the limitation on the mortgage interest deduction for the acquisition indebtedness of certain taxpayers.
American Samoa Economic Development Act of 1995 - Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary of the Interior for the Government of American Samoa for FY 1996 through 2005 to be used for: (1) construction, maintenance, and repair of American Samoa's capital assets, (2) operations of the Government of American Samoa. And (3) reduction of unbudgeted debt incurred by the Government of American Samoa in fiscal years prior to 1996. Requires amounts appropriated to be placed in a trust administered by a nongovernmental entity. Prohibits the release of funds for the construction of capital assets for FY 1997 and following years until: (1) the Government of American Samoa submits to the trustee a master plan of capital needs that ranks projects in order of priority for at least five years. And (2) such Government submits to the trustee a maintenance plan covering the anticipated life of the project and the project is initially funded. Approves the release of funds only for construction projects for specified public purposes. Prohibits the release of such funds, beginning in FY 1997, in the areas of communications, electrical power, public health, transportation, water, and wastewater until semiautonomous government agencies of the Government of American Samoa are established by local law. Requires funding provided to reduce the unbudgeted debt and for maintenance or repair of capital assets to be matched by non-Federal sources. Prohibits funds appropriated pursuant to this Act from being transferred to other accounts, loaned to other accounts or agencies, or used as collateral for loans made by the local government. Sets forth conditions on the release of trust funds to be used for construction of capital assets, debt reduction, and maintenance or repair. Requires the Government of American Samoa to obtain and submit an annual audit of its financial position to specified congressional committees. Withholds funds for government operations until a qualifying audit is received and reported. Authorizes the Comptroller General and the Inspector General to conduct audits of all funds of branches and semiautonomous authorities of the Government of American Samoa.
Social Security Safety Dividend Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to disburse a $250 payment for a particular year to recipients of Social Security benefits, Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits , railroad retirement benefits, or veterans disability compensation or pension benefits if no cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) is payable for any month in such a year.
Satellite Home Viewer Protection Act of 1996 - Amends Federal copyright law to require a satellite carrier that makes secondary transmissions of a primary transmission by a network station, prior to providing broadcasting signals to a subscriber, to provide such subscriber with a written statement describing and quoting the network territorial restrictions related to such retransmission. Requires a satellite carrier, within 30 days of receipt of a challenge by a network station as to whether a subscriber is an unserved household within the predicted Grade B contour of such station, to: (1) inform the subscriber of the challenge. And (2) offer such subscriber the option of the satellite carrier conducting a measurement of the signal intensity of the subscriber's household to determine whether such household is an unserved household. Requires the satellite carrier to: (1) terminate service to such a household if its subscriber does not request a signal intensity measurement within 30 days of notification of the challenge from the satellite carrier. And (2) notify the network station that such service has been terminated. Outlines procedures to be taken after a signal measurement has been taken. Repeals a provision allowing a network station to challenge a subscriber outside the predicted Grade B contour of the network station. Authorizes satellite carriers and network broadcasters to negotiate the terms and conditions of the signal intensity measurement described under this Act. Requires a complete description of such agreement to be filed with the Register of Copyrights within 30 days after its execution. Provides for arbitration of such an agreement if the parties cannot agree to terms and conditions within 30 days after the enactment of this Act.
Prohibits the President from providing economic assistance, military assistance, or arms transfers to Sudan unless he certifies to the Congress that Sudan has taken action to eliminate chattel slavery, including: (1) enactment of antislavery laws that punish violators. And (2) rigorous enforcement of such laws. Directs the Secretary of State to designate an individual from the diplomatic mission in Khartoum, Sudan, for monitoring slavery there. Requires the President to report to the Congress on all forms of covert and overt forms of slavery in Sudan. Directs the President to instruct: (1) the US representative to each international financial institution to oppose any assistance to Sudan until it has taken action to eliminate chattel slavery. And (2) the US permanent representative to the United Nations to pursue passage of any U. N. Security Council resolution that enhances cooperation of other countries in applying sanctions against Sudan. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should work with foreign countries and appropriate international organizations to ensure that humanitarian assistance organizations have access to all parts of Sudan for the purpose of assisting individuals who have been enslaved to resettle in Sudan.
Promote Accountability and Government Efficiency Act This bill requires civil service employees to be hired on an at-will basis beginning one year after this bill's enactment. Such an employee may be removed or suspended from service by the agency head for good cause, bad cause, or no cause at all, without notice or right to appeal. The bill specifies how an employee or applicant may seek a remedy under specified employment protection statutes with respect to an adverse personnel action. The bill permits an agency to suspend an employee for misconduct or poor performance. The employee may appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board, which may not reinstate the employee until a final decision is made on such appeal. In the case of critical necessity, an agency may immediately replace a suspended employee. An employee or applicant may not appeal an adverse personnel action to more than one agency. The bill prohibits an employee who does not receive a score of four or five out of five on his or her latest performance review from receiving a pay raise. A grievance filed on behalf of such employee covered by a collective bargaining agreement that results in an increased performance rating for such employee may not result in a pay raise. The OPM shall submit a report that contains recommendations for a single-agency rating system. An individual appointed to the civil service who is not subject to this bill's requirements regarding at-will employment may not be paid an annuity or retired pay on the basis of such service if the individual was finally convicted of a felony offense: (1) when such individual was performing creditable service, or (2) after such individual has separated from service if such offense is related to the performance of his or her government position. An agency may transfer an individual occupying a Senior Executive Service position who is not an at-will employee to a position within the General Schedule. The bill: (1) eliminates provisions authorizing official time for an employee serving as an exclusive representative in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement, and (2) prohibits an employee from using government property in carrying out any activities relating to the internal business of a labor organization.
United States Mint Bicentennial Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the establishment of the United States Mint. Prescribes the designs for the ensuing five-dollar gold coins, one-dollar silver coins, and half-dollar silver coins. Restricts issuance of such coins to 1993. Mandates that all surcharges received from the sale of such coins be paid to the Smithsonian Institution for the National Numismatic Collection. Requires the Executive Director of the National Numismatic Collection to establish specified funds with the surcharge proceeds. Prescribes financial assurances.
Noxious Weed Control and Eradication Act of 2004 - Amends the Plant Protection Act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a grant program to provide financial and technical assistance to weed management entities to control or eradicate noxious weeds. Sets forth criteria for making grants to weed management entities and for the selection for funding of weed eradication projects. Directs the Secretary to give special consideration to States with approved weed management entities established by Indian tribes. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with weed management entities for funding of weed eradication activities that take into consideration various factors, including: (1) the severity of the noxious weeds problem or potential problem. (2) the likelihood that the activities will prevent or resolve the weed problem or increase knowledge about resolving similar problems. (3) the extent to which the activities will provide a comprehensive approach to the control or eradication of noxious weeds. (4) the extent to which the activities will improve the overall capacity of the United States to address noxious weed problems. And (5) the extent to which the activities promote cooperation and participation between States that have a common interest in controlling and eradicating noxious weeds. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a cooperative agreement with weed management entities to enable rapid response to outbreaks of noxious weeds. States that the assistance authorized under this Act is meant to supplement, and not replace, other assistance available for control or eradication of harmful, invasive weeds on public and private lands. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2005 through 2009. Limits funding for administrative costs to five percent of available funds.
Federal Land Freedom Act of 2015 This bill permits a state that has an established leasing, permitting, and regulatory program to: (1) declare to the Secretaries of the Interior, of Agriculture, and of Energy that it has either established or amended the program. And (2) seek to transfer to itself, and to implement, existing federal responsibilities for leasing, permitting, and regulating oil, natural gas, and other forms of energy development. Any state action to lease, permit, or regulate oil and gas exploration and development shall not be subject to, or considered, a federal action, a federal permit, or a federal license with respect to specified administrative and environmental laws and is therefore exempt from them. State-issued leases or permits must provide for: (1) the collection of royalties or other revenues in an amount equal to what would have been collected if the lease or permit had been federally issued, and (2) their deposit into the same federal account in which they would have been deposited if the lease or permit had been federally issued. A state may collect and retain lease or permit application processing fees.
Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program - Establishes the Emergency Steel Loan Guarantee Program, and the Loan Guarantee Board to administer it, composed of the Secretaries of Commerce, the Treasury, and Labor. Authorizes such Program to guarantee loans by private banking and investment institutions to qualified steel companies, in accordance with Board-established procedures. Sets forth loan guarantee parameters. Authorizes appropriations. Treats an iron ore company as a qualified steel company for purposes of the Program.
Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area Establishment Act - Designates approximately 188,000 acres of specified public lands and interests administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in San Bernardino County in California as the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area for purposes of public recreation and natural resources conservation. Withdraws the public lands and interests included in the Area from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining laws and the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws. Authorizes the Secretary of the Navy to use parts of the Area twice in each year for up to a total of 60 days a year for: (1) sustained, combined arms, live-fire, and maneuver field training for large-scale Marine air-ground task forces, (2) individual and unit live-fire training ranges, (3) equipment and tactics development. And (4) other defense-related purposes. Requires the Secretary, before requesting the two time periods for military use of the Area, to: (1) consult with the Secretary of the Interior regarding the best times for such use to reduce interference with or interruption of the nonmilitary activities authorized by this Act, and (2) provide for public awareness of and participation in the selection process. Requires the Secretary to provide advance, wide-spread notice before any closure of the public lands for military use. Requires military use of the Area during the biannual periods to be conducted in the presence of sufficient range safety officers to ensure the safety of military personnel and civilians. Prohibits the use of dud-producing ordnance in any such military activity conducted on the Area. Directs the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior to enter into a written agreement to implement military use of the Area. Requires such agreement to include a provision for the periodic review of such agreement for its adequacy, effectiveness, and need for revision. Permits such agreement to provide for: (1) the integration of the management plans of the Secretaries, (2) delegation to civilian law enforcement personnel of the Department of the Navy of the Secretary of the Interior's authority to enforce laws relating to protection of natural and cultural resources and of fish and wildlife, and (3) the sharing of resources in order to manage the public lands most effectively. Terminates any agreement for the military use of such Area by no later than March 31, 2039. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to transfer, without reimbursement, approximately 20,000 acres of specified BLM-administered land in San Bernardino County to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary. Includes such transferred land as part of the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms in California. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to: (1) establish a reservation in favor of the United States with respect to any water or water right on withdrawn lands, or (2) authorize the appropriation of water on such lands except in accordance with applicable state law.
Joining Forces for Military Mental Health Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, through community partnerships with private nonprofit organizations, to carry out a three-year pilot program assessing the enhancement of Department of Defense (DOD) efforts in research, treatment, education, and outreach on mental health and substance use disorders and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) in members of the National Guard and Reserves and their family members and caregivers. Allows the Secretary, using a competitive or merit-based award process, to award up to five grants to such community partners, provided that the awardee agrees to make matching contributions from nonfederal sources of at least $3 for each $1 provided under the grant. Requires grant-seeking organizations to submit an application including a description of proposed collaboration initiatives and existing research efforts.
Reconnecting Congress with America Act of 2011 - Adjusts the annual rate of pay for Members of Congress for pay periods occurring in a calendar year if, for the most recent fiscal year ending before that calendar year, the federal deficit attained specified levels. Sets a Member's annual pay rate at: (1) 80 of the applicable base rate if the federal deficit was equal to or greater than 3 of the gross domestic product (GDP), (2) 90 of the applicable rate if the federal deficit was less than 3 of GDP, and (3) 100 of the applicable rate if there was no federal deficit. Amends the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 to eliminate any statutory pay adjustments for Members of Congress. Increases by 4.9 the contributions payable by a Member of Congress under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and the Federal Employees' Retirement System (FERS). Establishes the federal contributions payable under CSRS and FERS for a Member equal to the percentage that would otherwise apply minus such 4.9 increase. Amends the Commodity Exchange Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to direct both the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to prohibit purchase or sale of either securities, security-based swaps, or commodities for future delivery or swap by a person in possession of material nonpublic information regarding pending or prospective legislative action if the information was obtained: (1) knowingly from a Member or congressional employee, (2) by reason of being a Member or congressional employee, or (3) from other federal employees and derived from their federal employment. Directs both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives to hold hearings on the implementation by the CFTC and the SEC of such financial transaction prohibitions. Expresses the sense of Congress that any law enacted by Congress should apply to Members of Congress in the same manner and to the same extent as the law applies to other individuals.
Veterans' Disability Claims Efficiency Act of 2010 - Allows the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA), in the case of a disability claim with multiple conditions, to assign an interim disability rating for the condition(s) that can be assigned without further development and to continue development of the remaining condition(s). Requires an interim disability rating to remain in effect unless the Secretary later assigns an increased rating for such condition. Prohibits the continuation of such rating if the rating was based on fraud or the condition improves. Directs the Secretary to establish a process for the rapid identification of initial claims for disability compensation that should, in adjudication, receive priority in the order of review. Requires the Secretary to identify whether claims have the potential of being adjudicated quickly, the claims qualify for priority treatment, and a temporary disability rating could be assigned for such claims. Authorizes the Secretary to provide priority based on the effect such priority would have on a claimant.
Economic Growth and Tax Relief Act of 2001 - States that tax rate revisions made by this Act shall not be treated as a tax rate change for purposes of applying the pre-and post-change tax rates under section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code. Amends the Code, as of tax year 2001, to establish a 12 percent individual tax bracket for each filing status. Caps taxable income levels for the 12 percent bracket at: (1) $12,000 for married individuals filing jointly, (2) $10,000 for heads of households. And (3) $6,000 for unmarried individuals or married individuals filing separately. Applies the current 15 percent bracket to income levels above the 12 percent caps but below current 15 percent caps. Prohibits minimum bracket amount inflation adjustments through tax year 2006. Revises the cost-of-living adjustment formula, as of tax year 2007. Provides, beginning in tax year 2002, for specified reductions in the 12. 28, 31, 36, and 39.6 percent individual brackets, so that as of 2006 and thereafter, there shall be four tax brackets of 10, 15, 25, and 33 percent. Repeals mandatory reductions in the additional child tax credit and the earned income credit for taxpayers subject to the alternative minimum tax. Revises current tax rates in conformity with the amendments made by this Act respecting: (1) accumulated corporate earnings, (2) personal holding companies. (3) voluntary withholding on certain Federal payments, unemployment benefits, gambling winnings, and Indian casino profits, (3) backup withholding. And (4) supplemental wage payments. States that amounts transferred to any Social Security Act trust fund shall be determined as if this Act had not been enacted.
Defined Benefit Pension Reform Plan of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) concerning minimum funding standards for pension plans to: (1) permit a multiemployer plan to elect to use an emergency investment loss method , starting in the first plan year in which there is an emergency investment loss. And (2) establish separate mortality tables for blue-collar and white-collar workers which may be used in lieu of the current table. Amends the Code to modify the full-funding limitation for purposes of the deduction limits on employer pension contributions. Amends ERISA to require notification of participants and beneficiaries of plan terminations by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Complete America's Great Trails Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for the fair market value of any National Scenic Trail conservation contribution. The Department of the Interior must study and report onnbsp. The efficacy of such tax credit in completing, extending, and increasing the number of National Scenic Trails and the feasibility and cost of making such credit refundable and transferable.
Empowerment Zone Enhancement Act of 1998 - Amends title XX of the Social Security Act with respect to additional grants to: (1) provide for grant funding for additional empowerment zones. (2) set the amount of such grants for zones in urban and rural areas, as well as the timing of such grants, (3) provide funding for such grants. (4) require environmental review by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture. And (5) require the lead implementing entity for an empowerment zone to establish a performance measurement system.
Stop Iran From Smuggling Weapons to Terrorists Act This bill authorizes the Department of Defense (DOD) to provide training to: (1) the national military or other security forces of Israel, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Oman, Kuwait, and Qatar that have among their functional responsibilities maritime security missions. And (2) ministry, agency, and headquarters level organizations for such forces. Such assistance and training may be referred to as the Counter Iran Maritime Initiative. Such training: (1) may include the provision of de minimis equipment, supplies, and small-scale military construction. And (2) shall include the promotion of human rights and respect for legitimate civilian authority. It is the sense of Congress that DOD should seek payments from such countries to offset training costs. DOD shall negotiate a training cost-sharing agreement with a recipient country that covers at least 50 of related costs.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act - Makes an employee of a land management agency who served under a time-limited appointment in the competitive service eligible to compete for a permanent appointment in the agency if the original appointment was competitive, totaled a period of at least 24 months, and the employee's performance was satisfactory. Requires such an employee's appointment to a full-time position, if such a position is offered and the employee agrees to such employment, if the original position stated that there was the potential for the position to become permanent.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize an Early Federal Pell Grant Demonstration Program. Directs the Secretary of Education to award grants to four states to cover administrative expenses incurred in the program. Limits a state to a cohort of up to 10,000 of its eighth grade students who are eligible for a free or reduced price meal under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966. Provides for a cohort for each of the academic years 2007-2008 and 2008-2009. Declares that each student who participates in the demonstration project receives a commitment to receive a Pell Grant during their first year of undergraduate study at an institution of higher education, subject to a specified condition. Requires state grantees to choose local educational agencies to participate in the program from among those serving students at least half of whom are eligible for free or reduced price meals. Calculates participating students' Pell Grants by deeming them to have no expected family contribution. Directs the Secretary to arrange for an independent evaluation of the demonstration program's effectiveness in providing needy students with access to, and an incentive to pursue, higher education. Requires state grantees annually to provide program participants with information concerning college costs, Pell Grants, state college savings programs, and other state and federal aid programs.
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act to include manufacturing and assembly of gaming devices within the definition of class III gaming. Defines Compact as the class III gaming regulatory regime. Directs the Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission (Commission) to consult with an affected tribe before taking action authorized by such Act. Authorizes the Commission to monitor class III gaming where a Compact so provides. Authorizes class II tribal gaming ordinances to regulate non-Indian gaming activities on Indian lands to the same level as class III regulations permit. Sets forth Compact provisions. Applies the Federal tax exemption given to State gaming activities to Indian gaming activities. Applies Federal laws to class III gaming activities.
Discretionary Spending Control Act of 2004 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to: (1) revise for FY 2004 discretionary spending limits for the highway and mass transit categories. (2) set forth for FY 2005 and 2006 new budget authority and outlays for the general purpose discretionary category, outlays for the highway category and new budget authority and outlays for the mass transit category. And (3) set forth for FY 2007 through 2009 outlays for the highway category and new budget authority and outlays for the mass transit category. Revises the requirement that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) make adjustments to the highway category to conform to estimated levels of highway receipts. Sets forth the level of obligation limitations for the highway and mass transit categories for FY 2004 through 2009. Provides that, in any of FY 2005 through 2006, discretionary advance appropriations provided in appropriation Acts in excess of $23,558 billion shall be counted against the discretionary spending limits for the fiscal year for which the appropriation Act containing the advance appropriation is enacted. Provides, under specified conditions, for additional new budget authority in FY 2005 or 2005 for fire suppression and for an adjustment in the discretionary spending limit for FY 2005 for supplemental appropriations for the global war on terrorism. Requires the estimates set forth in the discretionary sequestration preview and final reports issued by OMB and the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to include the current year and each subsequent year through FY 2006 . Extends certain budget enforcement requirements through FY 2006 .
Senior Safe Corridors Act - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to make grants to States, and to units of local government with populations exceeding 100,000, to fund programs that create corridors of safety for senior citizens in high-density senior citizen areas. Directs that such grants be used to fund programs that seek to decrease violent crime against senior citizens by increasing the numbers, protective presence, and watchfulness of police, community group members, and others, and the watchfulness of business owners and employees, in high-density senior citizen areas. Specifies that such programs may include escorting senior citizens. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) application requirements, (2) criteria for application approval and priorities, (3) limits on grant amounts, and (4) reports by grant recipients. Authorizes appropriations.
Revises Federal veterans' programs to: (1) include care for newborn children among medical services provided under the Department of Veterans Affairs health care program for an enrolled woman veteran. (2) require outpatient dental care for all former prisoners of war. (3) set the pay for the Director of Nursing Service at the maximum rate payable to a Senior Executive Service member. (4) prohibit a veteran's honorable service certificate from being awarded on behalf of a veteran convicted of a Federal or State crime. (5) repeal a limitation on the number of non-career members serving in the Department. (6) repeal a requirement for at least five years of continuous Federal service prior to appointment as a Department Deputy Assistant Secretary. (7) allow the Department's operation and maintenance revolving supply fund to be used for medical supplies, equipment, and services for the Department of Defense. And (8) include Spanish or Latino individuals under the definition of a minority group member for purposes of the Department's Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans.
Governors Island Preservation and Development Act of 1998 - Establishes the Governors Island Commission to: (1) conduct meetings and hold hearings in accordance with this Act. (2) consider each plan for the disposition of Governors Island, New York, that any person or entity may submit to the Commission. And (3) within 180 days after all of the members of the Commission have been appointed, submit to the President a recommendation for the disposition of Governors Island, New York. Repeals provisions of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 providing for the sale of the Island. Provides for the transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, over the following structures and adjacent grounds on: (1) Castle Williams, (2) Fort Jay, (3) the Admiral's Headquarters, (4) the Governor's House. And (5) the Block House. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to submit to the Congress a plan for inclusion of the structures in the National Park System by the date on which the Commission submits its recommendation to the President. Authorizes appropriations.
Creating Opportunities for Military Members to Use Transportation Efficiently Act of 2014 or the COMMUTE Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Director of the Office of Economic Adjustment, to establish a Military Community Infrastructure Program to provide grants to a state or political subdivision, a public transportation owner or operator, a local governmental authority, a metropolitan planning organization (MPO), or a regional transportation planning organization for transportation infrastructure improvement projects in military communities. Directs the Secretary to conduct a traffic impact study for any urbanized area that expects a significant increase in traffic due to a military installation within or abutting such area.
Department of Veterans Affairs Employment Reduction Assistance Act of 1998 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, before obligating any resources for voluntary separation incentive payments (payments), to submit to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget a strategic plan outlining the use of such payments and a proposed organizational chart for the Department of Veterans Affairs once such payments have been completed. Requires such plan to include: (1) the positions and functions to be reduced or eliminated, (2) their effects on meeting efficiency, budget, or staffing goals. (3) the period of time during which such incentives may be paid. And (4) a description of how the affected Department components will operate without the eliminated functions and positions. Authorizes the Secretary to make such a payment only to reduce or eliminate positions or functions identified in the plan. Requires such payments to be in a lump sum and no greater than $25,000 apiece. Requires full repayment from any individual who is subsequently reemployed with any Federal department or agency, with exceptions for certain employment in which the individual possesses unique abilities and is the only qualified applicant available. Requires the Secretary to remit to the Office of Personnel Management for credit to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund 15 percent of the final basic pay of each individual receiving such payments. Reduces the total full-time equivalent employees in the Department by one for each individual receiving such a payment. Authorizes the President to waive such reductions upon a determination of the existence of: (1) a state of war or other national emergency. Or (2) an extraordinary emergency which threatens life, health, safety, property, or the environment. Provides for continued temporary health insurance coverage for individuals receiving such payments. Prohibits any payment based on the separation of an employee after September 30, 2004.
Balanced Economic and Environmental Priorities Act of 1994 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to prohibit a Federal officer or employee from implementing or enforcing a designation of critical habitat, an issued protective regulation, or a developed recovery plan under such Act unless the Secretary : (1) prepares an economic impact analysis with respect to such designation, regulation, or recovery plan. (2) determines that the benefits of it outweigh the costs of it. And (3) publishes an economic impact statement describing the findings of the analysis. Establishes guidelines for such economic impact analysis. Directs the Secretary to: (1) limit economic losses incurred by persons caused by listing species as endangered or threatened. And (2) compensate such persons for any diminishments in the value of tangible or intangible property, and in the loss or diminishment of a job. Requires congressional approval of any additions to the endangered species list. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) review endangered or threatened species added on or after such date to a published list of endangered or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973. (2) prepare an economic impact analysis and statement with respect to them. And (3) publish a list of all designations of critical habitat, regulations, and recovery plans in effect on the date of that publication . Prohibits a person from being paid for any loss incurred by species being added to a list of endangered species or threatened species published under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 during the period beginning January 1, 1986, and ending on the enactment of this Act, except for losses resulting from the implementation or enforcement of designations of critical habitat, regulations, and recovery plans that are not included in the list published under this Act.
Revolutionary War Historic Preservation Study Act of 1994 - Establishes the Revolutionary War Sites Advisory Commission to: (1) prepare a study of Revolutionary War sites which shall identify their significance, determine threats to their integrity, and provide alternatives for their preservation and interpretation. And (2) report to the Secretary of the Interior and specified congressional committees. Requires the Commission to research and propose innovative open space and land preservation techniques such as designation as units of the National Park System (NPS) or as affiliated areas. Allows the study to include existing NPS units. Authorizes appropriations.
Commission on Catastrophic Disaster Risk and Insurance Act of 2006 - Establishes a bipartisan Commission on Catastrophic Disaster Risk and Insurance to assess: (1) the condition of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance markets in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma in 2005, and the four major hurricanes that struck the United States in 2004. (2) the ongoing exposure of the United States to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, and floods. And (3) recommend and report legislative and regulatory changes that will improve the domestic and international financial health and competitiveness of such markets.
Honorable Stephanie Tubbs Jones College Fire Prevention Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to make competitive demonstration grants to institutions of higher education (IHEs), fraternities, and sororities for up to half the cost of installing fire sprinkler systems, or other fire suppression or prevention technologies, in student housing and dormitories owned or controlled by such entities. Gives grant priority to applicants that demonstrate the greatest financial need. Reserves the following portions of grant funds made available for each fiscal year: (1) at least 10 for historically Black colleges and universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, tribally controlled colleges and universities, Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, and IHEs that are eligible for Institutional Aid under the Higher Education Act of 1965. And (2) at least 10 for social fraternities and sororities. Prohibits the use of more than 2 of a grant for administrative expenses. Directs the Secretary to report to Congress regarding such grant program and governmental policies that impede the development and installation of fire suppression or prevention technologies. Authorizes FY2009-FY2011 appropriations for the grant program. Provides that any application for assistance under this Act, any negative determination on the part of the Secretary with respect to such application, or any statement of reasons for the determination, shall not be admissible as evidence in any proceeding of any court, agency, board, or other entity .
Nye County Higher Education Campus Conveyance Act - Requires the conveyance, without consideration, of all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to specified Bureau of Land Management land in the State of Nevada to the University and Community College System of Nevada for use as a campus for the Nye County Nevada Higher Education Campus in Pahrump Valley, Nevada.
Houthis and Iran Sanctions Accountability Act of 2017 This bill continues certain sanctions blocking the property of persons threatening the peace or stability of Yemen. The President shall: determine and report to Congress whether certain Iranian persons are threatening Yemen's peace or stability, and if so, impose property blocking sanctions against each identified person. And impose property blocking and visa sanctions on foreign persons or entities that knowingly provide significant financial, material, or technological support for Ansar Allah in Yemen and certain other persons and entities.
Noncitizen Benefit Clarification and Other Technical Amendments Act of 1998 - Amends the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRAWORA) to provide that the new restrictions it imposes on alien eligibility for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) under title XVI of the Social Security Act (SSA) shall not apply to a nonqualified alien who was receiving such benefits on August 22, 1996 . Amends the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (NAFTA) to permanently extend the authorization of the Self-Employment Assistance programs. Amends SSA title IV part D to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to reduce, by 20 percent, the penalty for State failure to meet the deadline for compliance with child support data processing and information retrieval requirements, for each performance measure under the child support enforcement incentive payment system for which the State does achieve maximum performance. Amends the Child Support Performance and Incentive Act of 1998 to amend the effective date for State enactment of certain medical child support requirements . Amends PRAWORA to allow nonresident alien professionals to renew their US professional licenses. Amends SSA title IV part A with regard to welfare-to-work grants to eliminate the one year obligation requirement and allow a State to retain certain funds reserved for special projects , without passing them through to a sub-State entity, even if all the money has not been obligated each fiscal year. Amends SSA title XVI to exclude from SSI eligibility and Medicaid benefit calculations up to $2,000 in cash awards made by tax-exempt organizations to children with life-threatening conditions. Amends part A of SSA title XI to authorize the Social Security Administration to recover SSI overpayments by offsetting up to ten percent per month of any Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance benefits under SSA title II.
Grand Jury Reform Act of 2017 This bill conditions a state or local government's receipt of funds under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program on the state's compliance with certain requirements following an incident involving the use of deadly force by a local law enforcement officer that results in a person's death. Specifically, the governor must appoint a special prosecutor to present evidence before a judge to determine whether probable cause exists to criminally charge the law enforcement officer. The hearing must be open to the public.
Southern Border Security Assistance Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) providing financial assistance for law enforcement initiatives with our Mexican partners is important. And (2) Congress must provide, in addition to such assistance, immediate resources and equipment to state and local law enforcement entities that are currently responding to border violence and criminal activities on a daily basis. Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to award border security assistance grants to law enforcement entities located in the Southern Border Region to address drug trafficking, smuggling, and border violence. Directs the President to appoint additional district judges for Arizona, California, New Mexico, and Texas.
Hunter and Farmer Protection Act of 2015 This bill amends the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to revise standards for determining what constitutes baiting for purposes of the prohibition on taking migratory game birds. A baited area, in the case of waterfowl, cranes, and coots, includes a standing, unharvested crop that has been manipulated through activities such as mowing, discing, or rolling, unless the activities are normal agricultural practices. An area is not considered to be a baited area if it: (1) has been treated with a normal agricultural practice, (2) has standing crops that have not been manipulated, or (3) has standing crops that have been or are flooded. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) must submit to the Department of the Interior a report on changes to normal agricultural practices across the range of crops grown by agricultural producers in each region of the United States in which USDA harvest practice recommendations are provided to agricultural producers.
Voluntary Adoption Protection Act - Amends the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 to exempt voluntary child custody proceedings from coverage under that Act. States that upon written consent by a parent or legal guardian of an Indian child to voluntarily terminate parental rights such Act is inapplicable with respect to any child custody proceeding involving such child.
Air Traffic Supervisor Retirement Reform Act of 1995 - Provides that service performed by certain civilian employees of the Departments of Transportation or of Defense holding specified positions for which experience as an air traffic controller is a prerequisite shall be creditable for retirement under the Civil Service and Federal Employees' Retirement Systems.
Great Falls Preservation and Redevelopment Act of 1993 - Establishes the Great Falls Historic District in Paterson, New Jersey, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with: (1) nonprofit entities for the purchase of property or easements, emergency stabilization, and the establishment of a coordinated fund to carry out this Act. (2) property owners for the preservation and interpretation of properties of historical or cultural significance. And (3) the State of New Jersey for rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement services in the District. Authorizes appropriations.
Promoting Self-Reliance for the World's Poorest Act of 2002 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to reauthorize sustainable poverty-focused microenterprise assistance programs through micro- and small enterprise development credits and microenterprise development grants for developing countries. Revises certain requirements with respect to such programs to require 50 percent of all microenterprise resources to be obligated and expended in support of programs or services under which 50 percent or more of the clients are initially very poor, that is, those persons living in the bottom 50 percent below the poverty line or those living on the equivalent of less than $1 per day. Requires the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (AID) to develop and implement certain interim methods to measure the level of poverty of clients of sustainable poverty-focused microenterprise programs under the Act.
Know Before You Fly Act This bill makes it an unfair or deceptive practice for an air carrier, foreign air carrier, or ticket agent to fail to disclose in its Internet fare quotation a clear and prominent statement of checked baggage and carry-on baggage fees, along with a prominent website link to a list of all such fees. A covered air carrier shall publish on its website a clear statement indicating whether it will provide passengers whose travel is interrupted due to a widespread disruption: hotel accommodations, ground transportation, meal vouchers, transportation on another air carrier to the passenger's destination. And sleeping facilities, food, and water inside the airport terminal. A quot, covered air carrierquot. Is defined as an air carrier that provides scheduled or public charter air transportation in an aircraft designed for a passenger capacity of 30 or more. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) shall designate a FAA office to receive and analyze reports involving fumes in the air conditioning and pressurization systems of commercial aircraft.
Traveling Sales Crew Protection Act - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to: (1) exclude from an exemption from minimum wage and overtime requirements employee members of traveling sales crews who do not return to their permanent residences at the end of the workday. And (2) prohibit minors from being employed in door-to-door sales or related support work requiring them to remain away from their permanent residences for more than 24 hours. Requires certificates of registration for employers and supervisors of traveling sales crews operations. Sets forth various obligations of employers of traveling sales crew workers. Directs the Secretary of Labor to: (1) administer such registration system. And (2) promulgate safety and health standards for vehicles used to transport traveling sales crew members. Sets forth enforcement provisions, including criminal sanctions, civil penalties, administrative complaints, and private rights of action.
Directs the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection to provide for the liquidation or reliquidation of certain entries of Granulated polytetrafluoroethylene resin from Italy.
Local Emergency Health Services Reimbursement Act of 2002 - Amends the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 to appropriate $200,000,000 for each of FY 2003 through 2007 for allotments to States for reimbursement of emergency health services furnished to undocumented aliens . Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to use $134,000,000 of such amount to compute an allotment, according to a specified formula, for each of the 17 States with the highest number of undocumented aliens. Directs the Secretary to use $66,000,000 to compute an allotment for each of the six States with the highest number of undocumented alien apprehensions. Permits a State to receive funds on both accounts. Allows funds to go to States, local governments, hospitals, or other providers in a State, including providers of services received through an Indian Health Service facility . Declares that this Act constitutes budget authority in advance of appropriations Acts.
Prohibits any prevailing rate employee in a federal agency, between January 1 and September 30, 2014, from being paid an amount exceeding specified limits resulting from an applicable wage survey adjustment. Prohibits the percentage increase in wages paid to a prevailing wage employee in FY2014 from being less than the percentage increase in the basic pay of other federal employees in the same pay locality.
This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to subject any alien who remains in the United States after any visa or status under which the alien is lawfully present has expired to: (1) a fine or imprisonment for up to six months, or both, for a first offense. And (2) a fine or imprisonment for up to two years, or both, for any subsequent offense. Such penalties shall be waived if the overstay was due to medical necessity, public safety, or national security. An alien convicted of a first offense may not be admitted to the United States for 5 years or granted a visa for 10 years. An alien convicted of a subsequent offense may not be admitted to the United States at all or granted a visa. The bill expands the scope of an individual's right to counsel in immigration proceedings and appeals. The government, however, shall not bear the cost of counsel in such proceedings or appeals. The Department of State may share visa records and related information with a foreign government if in the national interests of the United States. The Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall provide the State Department with access to National Crime Information Center files for visa adjudications involving a diplomat or government official.
Rare Earths Supply Technology and Resources Transformation Act of 2010 or RESTART Act - Establishes within the Department of the Interior the Rare Earth Policy Task Force to monitor and assist federal agencies in expediting the review and approval of permits to accelerate the completion of projects that will increase investment in, exploration for, and development of domestic rare earths. Directs the Secretaries of the Interior and of Energy to assess and report to Congress on: (1) the domestic rare earth supply chain. (2) rare earth elements critical to clean energy technologies and the national security. And (3) whether critical rare earth materials should be stockpiled. Instructs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) report to industry describing available mechanisms for obtaining government loan guarantees to reestablish a domestic rare earth supply chain. And (2) issue guidance for the rare earth industry on obtaining federal loan guarantees. Directs the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on past, current, and future projects to support the domestic rare earth supply chain. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the United States faces a shortage of key rare earth materials that form the backbone of both the defense and energy supply chains. (2) the urgent need to reestablish a domestic rare earth supply chain warrants a statutory prioritization of projects to support such reestablishment. (3) there is a pressing need to support innovation, training, and workforce development in the domestic rare earth supply chain. And (4) the Departments of Energy, of the Interior, of Commerce, and of Defense should each provide funds to academic institutions, federal laboratories, and private entities for innovation, training, and workforce development in the domestic rare earth supply chain.
Community Investment and Empowerment Act - Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to authorize the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to make grants on a competitive basis to communities for: the creation of a grant andor revolving loan fund program that helps develop financing packages for Class 1 commercial investment, lowering real estate property tax rates. Conducting community-wide market analysis to help recruit andor retain Class 1 commercial investment. Creating employment training programs for Class 1 business customer service, sales, and managerial positions. Retail marketing strategies to solicit new Class 1 commercial investment starts in the community. Program allowances for activities such as the publication of marketing materials, development of economic development web pages, and educational outreach activities with retail trade associations. And hiring business recruitment specialists. Authorizes the Administrator to only make such a grant to communities: (1) whose demographics include a median per capita income no higher than $35,000 and a lack of Class 1 commercial investment. (2) that submit an application that describes the activities the community carries out, and the difficulty the community has faced, to recruit, retain and grow their economy through Class 1 commercial investment. And (3) that agree to match 10 of grant funds with certain non-federal contributions. Allows the Administrator to waive or reduce the non-federal contribution if the community involved demonstrates that it cannot meet the contribution requirement due to financial hardship.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish a grants program to assist States and local educational agencies (LEAs) to recruit, train, and hire 100,000 school-based resource staff to work with students to: (1) reduce the student-to-counselor ratios nationally, in grades six through 12, to an average of one such staff for every 250 students, as recommended in a 1997 report by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences relating to schools and health. (2) help address the mental, emotional, and developmental needs of public school students. And (3) support other school staff and teachers in reaching students early before problems arise, conducting behavioral interventions to improve school discipline, and developing the awareness and skills to identify early warning signs of violence and the need for mental health services. Directs the Secretary of Education to make such grants, for up to three years for each grant, to establish or expand the number of resource staff available for students' needs . Requires such grant funds to be allocated on the basis of relative State population under 18 years of age. Sets forth requirements for LEA grant applications and uses of funds. Provides that resource staff means an individual who has documented competence and training in mental health to be able to provide services to children and adolescents in a school setting and who has specified types of licensure, certification, or educational qualifications. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 through 2004 for such program.
Oil Region National Heritage Area Act - Establishes the Oil Region National Heritage Area in Pennsylvania. Designates the Oil Heritage Region, Inc. to be the management entity for the Area. Directs such entity to: (1) prepare and implement a management plan for the Area, which shall be approved or disapproved by the Secretary of the Interior. (2) assist local governments, regional planning organizations, and nonprofit organizations in establishing and maintaining interpretive exhibits, developing recreational resources, and restoring historic buildings in the Area. And (3) encouraging economic viability in the Area. Prohibits such entity from using Federal funds under this Act to acquire real property. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical and financial assistance to such entity. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Historic American Building Survey and the Historic American Engineering Record, to conduct studies to document the industrial, engineering, building, and architectural history of the Area. Prohibits any privately owned property from being preserved, conserved, or promoted by the management plan until the owner has been notified and has consented. Requires removal of private property from Area boundaries upon the owner's request. Authorizes appropriations. Limits the Federal assistance match to 50 percent of any activity's total cost.
Our Nation's Trade, Infrastructure, Mobility, and Efficiency Act of 2007 or the ON TIME Act of 2007 - Declares that it is the purpose of this Act to: (1) address major transportation investment needs in national trade gateway corridors. (2) reduce freight congestion along current and future trade corridors along surface transportation routes that are or will be congested as a result of current or future growth in international trade. And (3) develop corridors that will increase freight transportation system reliability. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (Secretary) to assess and collect a national trade gateway corridor fee on each article imported into, and exported from, the United States. Requires collected fees to be deposited in the National Trade Gateway Corridor Fund for projects in the transportation trade corridors for the Customs port of unloading of imported, or loading of exported, articles. Sets forth requirements with respect to: (1) the allocation of Fund amounts in the form of grants to state departments of transportation to carry out eligible projects in the corridors for the Customs ports of entry. And (2) project selection and eligibility. Requires the Secretary to establish a transportation trade corridor for each Customs port of entry where fees are collected.
Provides for continued National Guard support for border control activities along the US- Mexico border under Operation Jump Start until operational control of such border has been achieved. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to provide funding to a state that submits to the Secretary of State a state border control activities plan that meets certain requirements. Limits the number of National Guard that may be so deployed.
Children's Health Task Force Act of 2012 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency establish and maintain a permanent Task Force on Environmental Health Risks and Safety Risks to Children, which shall recommend federal strategies for addressing environmental health risks and safety risks to children in the United States, within projected budgetary limits. Requires such strategies to include: (1) adoption of action plans, including multiyear and annual priorities, to address the principal risks, (2) government initiatives to address such risks. (3) recommendations on how to improve cross-agency implementation of actions to address such risks. (4) recommendations for a coordinated research agenda for the government to address such risks. (5) recommendations for partnerships among federal, state, local, and tribal governments and the private, academic, and nonprofit sectors. (6) proposed ways to enhance public outreach and communication to assist families in evaluating such risks and in making informed consumer choices. And (7) proposed ways to strengthen the data system in order to identify and track development of rulemakings and other actions to ensure they comply with current policy on evaluating such risks. Directs the Task Force to submit, make publicly available, and disseminate widely a biennial report including: (1) the strategies developed and updated, (2) a description of the Task Force's accomplishments, (3) current national priorities for addressing such risks and any related emerging issues, (4) updates on federal research findings and research needs regarding such risks, (5) information submitted by federal agencies and by stakeholders for inclusion in the report, and (6) recommendations by the Children's Health Protection Advisory Committee.
Medical Device Safety Monitoring Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to support pilot projects in order to provide timely and reliable information on the safety and effectiveness of marketed medical devices. The projects must: (1) be designed to generate safety and active surveillance data, (2) inform support for safety and active surveillance activities, (3) be coordinated with a system for evaluating medical device technology that operates under a board with representation from consumer groups and device manufacturers, and (4) use electronic health data. The FDA may determine that a manufacturer's participation in a pilot project satisfies requirements regarding reporting or postmarket surveillance if the project captures adverse event information and the FDA has established procedures to publish safety information from the project. Not later than January 31, 2021, the FDA must evaluate real world evidence pilot projects, such as the ones supported by this bill, for their ability to inform decision-making and efficiently generate evidence about the safety or effectiveness of medical devices.
Health Care Fraud Enforcement Act of 2009 - Directs the United States Sentencing Commission to review and amend guidelines and policy statements relating to health care fraud to increase the sentences for such crimes based upon the dollar amount of fraud involved. Expands the definition of health care fraud to include anti-fraud provisions of the Social Security Act relating to kickbacks, bribes, or rebates, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Makes a health care fraud violation under such statutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. Amends the federal criminal code to allow a conviction for health care fraud without actual knowledge of a fraud prohibition or a specific intent to commit a health care fraud violation. Amends the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act to expand the power of the Attorney General to issue subpoenas for records under such Act. Authorizes additional appropriations to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for FY2011-FY2016 for investigations and prosecutions relating to fraud and abuse in connection with any health care benefit program.
Name Matching for Enforcement and Security Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, and the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI) to develop and implement a unified electronic data system to provide current and immediate access to information in databases of US law enforcement agencies and the intelligence community that is relevant to determine: (1) whether to issue a visa. Or (2) the admissibility of an alien to the United States. Sets forth provisions regarding name search capacity and support and languages required. Requires: (1) such officials to consult with the Director of the Office of Homeland Security, the Foreign Terrorist Tracking Task Force, US law enforcement agencies, and the intelligence community. And (2) the system to utilize the technology standard established pursuant to the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (PATRIOT) Act of 2001. Directs that system information be readily and easily accessible to any: (1) Foreign Service officer responsible for the issuance of visas. And (2) Federal agent responsible for determining the admissibility of an alien to the United States. Requires the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the DCI to establish procedures to restrict access to intelligence information in the system under circumstances in which such information is not to be disclosed directly to Government officials.
FEMA Common Sense and Cost Effectiveness Act of 2011 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act and the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to authorize the construction and maintenance of levees on property acquired under the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA's) hazard mitigation grant programs, including: (1) a levee that is federally owned and operated. (2) a permanent levee that is federally constructed and nonfederally operated and maintained. (3) a levee that is federally constructed as a nonpermanent levee, that a nonfederal entity desires to operate and maintain as a permanent levee, and the owners of which are participating in, or, in a specified period after the date on which the levee is constructed, will begin participating in, the emergency response to natural disasters program. And (4) a nonfederal levee the owners of which are participating in the program. Authorizes an application to construct or maintain a levee on acquired lands to be denied if the levee poses a significant threat of harm to downstream communities.
Cargo Theft Deterrence Act of 1997 - Amends the Federal criminal code regarding thefts pertaining to interstate or foreign shipments by carrier to include thefts of trailers and air cargo containers and thefts from freight consolidation facilities. Increases the maximum penalty from one year to three years imprisonment. Authorizes the court, upon motion of the Attorney General, to reduce any penalty imposed under such provisions for any defendant who provides information leading to the arrest and conviction of any dealer or wholesaler of stolen goods or chattels moving as, which are a part of, or which constitute, an interstate or foreign shipment. Specifies that goods and chattel shall be construed to be moving as an interstate or foreign shipment at all points between the point of origin and the final destination. Makes it an affirmative defense that the defendant bought, received, or possessed the goods at issue with the sole intent to report the matter to an appropriate law enforcement officer or to the owner. Directs: (1) the United States Sentencing Commission to amend the Federal sentencing guidelines to provide a sentencing enhancement of not less than two levels for any such offense. And (2) the Attorney General to annually submit to the Congress a report including an evaluation of law enforcement activities relating to the investigation and prosecution of such offenses. Establishes the Advisory Committee on Cargo Theft to study, and develop recommendations regarding, the establishment of: (1) a national computer database for the collection and dissemination of information relating to violations of cargo theft provisions. And (2) an office within the Federal Government to promote, and to increase coordination between the Government and the private sector regarding, cargo security. Authorizes appropriations.
Local School Board Governance and Flexibility Act Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the responsibility for education resides with the states and the local educational agencies (LEAs) to which they have delegated authority. And (2) the Secretary of Education should only issue those regulations, rules, guidance materials, grant conditions, or other requirements that are specifically needed to implement federal legislation and are within LEAs' educational, operational, and financial capacity. Prohibits the Secretary, unless specifically authorized by federal law, from issuing regulations, rules, guidance materials, grant conditions, or other requirements pertaining to states or LEAs that: conflict with the authority of LEAs delegated to them by their state. Result in additional costs to LEAs for reporting, grant administration, and general operations that are not fully covered by the federal government. Conflict with the authority of LEAs to determine how to engage or act upon community participation and advice. Impose requirements on LEAs or state educational agencies (SEAs) that would adversely affect their authority to function as legislative, executive, or quasi-judicial agencies. Conflict with states' authority to determine the appropriate governance structure of their SEA or LEAs, or their SEA's or LEAs' authority to determine how schools are governed or managed. Establish SEA or LEA reporting requirements that duplicate existing federal requirements or are issued without first conducting a fiscal impact statement. Or place conditions or requirements on grants to states or LEAs that do not directly relate to, or do not directly support, the intent of the grants or legislation authorizing the grants. Directs the Secretary during each fiscal year to provide LEAs and the major national education organizations at least 60 days to provide written comments regarding the local impact of implementing federal regulations, rules, guidance materials, grant conditions, or other requirements for any applicable program or activity of the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to review existing LEA reporting requirements to identify and eliminate those that are duplicative. Prohibits the Secretary from promulgating federal regulations, rules, guidance materials, grant conditions, or other requirements pertaining to states or LEAs without first: requesting data and recommendations from SEAs, LEAs, and the major national education organizations regarding the educational, financial, and operational costs involved in implementing them. Verifying that LEAs will have the financial resources and technical assistance they may need to successfully implement the requirements. Giving SEAs, LEAs, and national educational organizations at least 60 days' notice to respond to such requirements before they are issued, except in certain emergencies. And giving SEAs and LEAs maximum flexibility in implementing the requirements. Provides that if an LEA or major national education organization provides the Secretary with a written statement demonstrating that a regulation, rule, guidance material, grant condition, or other requirement does not meet the substantive or procedural requirements of this Act, the Secretary must review the merits of the statement, issue a written response within 60 days, and post that response on the Department of Education's website.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase, for a corporate insider, the applicable tax by 50 percent of the amount realized by such insider from the disqualified disposition of stock acquired by such corporate insider upon the exercise of a stock option granted by the corporation. (2) increase, for a publicly traded corporation, the applicable tax by 50 percent of the net cost to the corporation of personal perks provided to a retired executive of the corporation. And (3) include in the gross income of a corporate insider funded deferred compensation.
Nuclear and Terrorism Threat Reduction Act of 2002 - States the policy of the United States to work cooperatively with the Russian Federation in order to prevent the diversion of weapons of mass destruction and related materials, including nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons, as well as scientific and technical expertise necessary to design and build weapons of mass destruction. Requires the US Government to work with the Russian Federation to develop comprehensive inventories of Russian weapons-grade material and warheads. Authorizes the President to conclude an agreement with the Russian Federation for the establishment of a joint United States-Russia Commission to Assess the Transition from Mutual Assured Destruction to Mutual Assured Security.
National Center for Pain Research Act of 1996 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish, in the National Institutes of Health, the National Center for Pain Research. Makes the National Pain Research Center Advisory Board the advisory council for the Center. Mandates establishment of not less than six regional pain research centers. Authorizes appropriations.
Authorizes the President to reinstate any or all of specified restrictions on commerce with North Korea any time a proliferation report indicates credible information that North Korea transferred nuclear goods, services, or technology to an outside destination. Requires a detailed justification to Congress in any such instance where the President decides not to reinstate restrictions. Requires a minimum two-year reinstatement of such restrictions if there is credible information that North Korea took an action inconsistent with: (1) compliance with the September 12, 1999, commitment to suspend launches of long-range missiles, or with any international agreement limiting testing, deployment, or transfer to other countries of missiles or missile technology. Or (2) transferred any of specified nuclear goods, services, or technology to any country whose government has repeatedly supported acts of international terrorism, or has tested any long-range missile incorporating goods or technology knowingly transferred to such government by North Korea. Declares that reinstatement requirements shall not apply if the President reports to the relevant congressional committees that there is substantial doubt that North Korea knowingly took such an action. Encourages the President to seek to negotiate a binding international agreement with North Korea that satisfies US concerns regarding the transfer by North Korea to other countries of missiles and missile technology. Authorizes the President, if North Korea enters into such an agreement, to: (1) waive specified sanctions under the Arms Export Control Act and the Export Administration Act of 1979. And (2) use certain funds to support the commercial launch in the United States or other countries of satellites for North Korea .
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on October 2, 2017. Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize a National Computer Forensics Institute within the US Secret Service for FY2017-FY2022. The institute shall: (1) disseminate information related to the investigation and prevention of cyber and electronic crime and related threats. And (2) educate, train, and equip state, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers, prosecutors, and judges. Institute functions include: educating such officers, prosecutors, and judges on current cyber and electronic crimes and related threats, methods for investigating such crime and threats and for conducting computer and mobile device forensic examinations, and related prosecutorial and judicial challenges. Training such officers to conduct investigations of such crime and related threats, as well as such forensic examinations, and to respond to network intrusion incidents. And training such officers, prosecutors, and judges on methods to obtain, process, store, and admit digital evidence in court. The institute: shall ensure that timely, actionable, and relevant expertise and information related to such crime and related threats is shared with such officers and prosecutors. May provide such officers with computer equipment, hardware, software, manuals, and tools necessary to conduct investigations of such crime and related threats and such forensic examinations. And shall facilitate the expansion of the network of Electronic Crime Task Forces of the Secret Service through the addition of officers trained at the institute. The bill amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to establish a new part, which may be cited as the National White Collar Crime Control Act of 2017, authorizing the Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance to enter into a cooperative agreement or make a grant for training and technical assistance to help law enforcement officers, investigators, auditors, and prosecutors identify, investigate, and prosecute white collar crime. White collar crime includes high-tech crime, economic crime, and Internet-based crime against children and child pornography.
Start Healthy, Stay Healthy Act of 2005- Amends titles XIX (Medicaid) and XXI (SCHIP) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to give States new options to: (1) cover low-income pregnant women. And (2) provide for coordination of SCHIP with the Maternal and Child Health Program under SSA title V. Provides for an increase in SCHIP income eligibility.
Youth Smoking Prevention Act of 1995 - Declares that the Secretary of Health and Human Services does not have any authority under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, or the Comprehensive Smokeless Tobacco Health Education Act of 1986 to regulate the manufacture, labeling, sale, distribution, and advertising and promotion of tobacco and other tobacco products containing nicotine. Establishes the Federal authority to regulate the sale, distribution, and advertising and promotion of tobacco and tobacco products containing nicotine as a condition to the receipt by State of the Federal preventive health and health services block grant. Amends the Public Health Service Act to prohibit or reduce the amount of block grants for the prevention and treatment of substance abuse based on whether a State has a law prohibiting: (1) sale of tobacco or tobacco products to individuals under the age of 18, (2) purchase of those materials by such individuals. (3) use of false identification for the purchase of those materials. (4) sale of individual cigarettes and packages of fewer than 20 cigarettes. (5) operation of a vending machine dispensing such materials unless specified requirements are met, (6) use of unsupervised self-service displays, (7) distribution of free samples to such individuals. And (8) distribution through the mail to such individuals. Sets forth general requirements regarding the sale of such materials and related notice by the owner to the employees of a retail establishment. Prohibits engaging in the retail sale of cigarettes without a license issued by the State. Sets forth State responsibilities. Regulates billboard advertising. Prohibits the placement of a tobacco manufacturer's brand name or logo on any item marketed specifically to minors, including toys and video games. Allows use of amounts available under such block grants to enforce the laws described in this Act.
Child Protection Compact Act of 2011 - Authorizes the Secretary of State, through the Ambassador-at-Large of the Department of State's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, to provide assistance for an eligible country with a significant prevalence of trafficking in children that enters into a Child Protection Compact with the United States to support policies and programs to eradicate the trafficking of children.
Community Services Block Grant Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Community Services Block Grant Act to authorize a community initiative grant program to carry out economic development activities in economically distressed communities. Extends the authorization of appropriations for the community services block grant program. Obligates funds for the community initiatives program.
Juvenile Corrections Act of 1997 - Authorizes the Administrator of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to make grants to assist States and local governments in planning, establishing, and operating secure detention and correctional facilities and other facilities and programs for violent juveniles and serious chronic juvenile offenders who are accused of, or who have been adjudicated as having committed, one or more offenses. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) application requirements, (2) minimum amounts allocated to qualifying States, (3) performance evaluations. And (4) technical assistance and training. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to make a compensating reduction of the authorization of appropriations from Violent Offender Incarceration and Truth in Sentencing Incentive Grants. Directs the Administrator to submit to the Congress a report regarding the possible use of performance-based criteria in evaluating and improving the effectiveness of juvenile delinquency programs.
Free to Fly Act The bill modifies definitions relating to aviation to permit a foreign air carrier to own US domestic air routes. The foreign carrier may establish US-based subsidiaries for such purpose. All foreign-owed air carriers that obtain a certificate to fly domestic routes may only hire US citizens or nationals, or permanent legal residents. The Department of Transportation (DOT) may issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity to a foreign air carrier with a board of directors that is comprised of more than 49 non-US citizens. The bill expands the scope of the President's review of DOT actions involving foreign air carriers. The Department of Defense may waive citizenship requirements for certain foreign air carriers participating in the civil reserve air fleet.
Chickasaw National Recreation Area Land Exchange Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, not later than six months after the Chickasaw Nation conveys all interest in specified non-Federal land , to take specified Federal land into trust for the benefit of the Chickasaw Nation. Requires that the value of the Federal and non-Federal land be determined by an appraisal acceptable to the Secretary and the Chickasaw Nation. Directs that if the values of the lands are not equal they may be equalized through a cash equalization payment by the Secretary or the Chickasaw Nation. Conditions the land conveyance on the completion of all items included in the Preliminary Exchange Agreement among the City of Sulphur, the Chickasaw Nation, and the National Park Service, executed on July 16, 2002, but makes inapplicable the item providing that the Federal land be taken into trust for the benefit of the Chickasaw Nation.
Veterans Acquiring Community Care Expect Safe Services Act of 2017 or the Veterans ACCESS Act This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to deny or revoke eligibility to provide non-VA health care services to veterans for any any health care provider that: (1) was removed from VA employment for violating VA policy relating to the delivery of safe and appropriate health care, (2) violated medical license requirements, (3) had a VA credential revoked on grounds that impact the provider's ability to deliver safe and appropriate health care, or (4) violated a law for which a prison term of more than one year may be imposed. The VA may deny, revoke, or suspend a health care provider's eligibility to provide non-VA health care services based on a reasonable belief that such action is necessary to immediately protect the health or safety of veterans if: (1) the provider is under investigation by a state's medical licensing board, (2) the provider has entered into a settlement agreement for a disciplinary charge relating to the practice of medicine, or (3) the VA otherwise determines that such action is appropriate. The VA shall suspend a health care provider's eligibility to provide non-VA health care services to veterans if such provider is suspended from serving as a VA medical provider.
Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Management Act of 2008 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop and make available to local educational agencies a policy to manage the risk of food allergy and anaphylaxis in schools to be implemented on a voluntary basis only. Directs that such policy address: (1) the documentation of student allergies and the development of an individual health care plan for each such student. (2) communication with emergency medical services, school staff, parents, and students, (3) reduction of exposure to causative agents of food allergies, (4) food allergy management training. And (5) administration of epinephrine. Provides that the policy developed by the Secretary and the food allergy management guidelines contained in such policy are voluntary.
National Materials Corridor Partnership Act of 1999 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) establish a comprehensive program to promote energy efficient, environmentally sound economic development along the United States-Mexico border through the research, development, and use of new materials technology. (2) give due consideration to the proposal made to the United States-Mexico Binational Commission for the Materials Corridor Partnership Initiative. (3) organize and conduct the program jointly with designated Federal agencies. And (4) emphasize the transfer and use of materials technology developed by the national laboratories of the Department of Energy. Mandates that activities funded under this Act be primarily focused upon materials that promote: (1) improved energy efficiency. (2) elimination or minimization of emissions of global climate change gases and contaminants, (3) minimization of industrial wastes and pollutants. And (4) use of recycled resources as primary materials for industrial production. Sets forth guidelines for major program elements and for participation by Federal departments and agencies. Directs the Secretary to establish an advisory committee consisting of representatives of the private, academic, and public sectors to consult and coordinate with Federal entities in identifying and implementing the appropriate projects to be funded under this Act. Prescribes financial and technical assistance guidelines. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends Federal civil service provisions relating to the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees Retirement System to expand the definition of law enforcement officer to include : (1) a revenue officer of the Internal Revenue Service, (2) a customs inspector of the US Customs Service. (3) a customs canine enforcement officer of the US Customs Service, (4) an Immigration and Naturalization Service inspector, (5) a Department of Defense police officer, (6) a Department of Defense Command Investigations Division detective, (7) a Bureau of Engraving and Printing officer, (8) a postal police officer, (9) a Secret Service special officer, (10) a Drug Enforcement Administration diversion investigator, (11) a US Customs Operation Enforcement Officer. And (12) a US Customs Detection System Specialist Airborne and Flight Engineer. Prohibits applying the amendments made by this Act with respect to any period of service preceding this Act's enactment unless the employee involved pays into the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount equal to the total additional amounts which should have been deducted and withheld from pay if such amendments had then been if effect, with interest. Requires the appropriate agency, no later than 90 days after the date on which such payment is made by an individual, to pay into the Fund any additional amounts which should have been paid by that agency into such Fund, with interest, as if this Act's amendments had been in effect during the prior periods of service involved.
Public Pension Parity Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exclude from gross income any amount received by an individual as a qualified governmental pension which does not exceed the maximum excludable social security benefits of the taxpayer for such year reduced by the social security benefits received during such year which were excluded from gross income. And (2) prohibit applying clause (1) to any qualified governmental pension received during the taxable year unless the taxpayer performed the service giving rise to such pension. Defines the term maximum excludable social security benefits.
Makes funds appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) for the Capitol power plant in any fiscal year available to construct, operate, and maintain on a reimbursable basis battery recharging stations in parking areas under the jurisdiction of the House of Representatives on Capitol grounds for use by privately owned vehicles used by: (1) Members of the House, or (2) employees whose pay is disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House or any other individuals authorized to park in any parking area under House jurisdiction on Capitol grounds . Requires the Architect to charge Members and covered employees fees for the electricity sufficient to cover costs, including those to any vendors or other costs associated with maintaining the battery recharging stations. Requires the AOC to report triennially to the Committee on House Administration on whether or not individuals using the battery charging stations receive a subsidy from the taxpayers, and, if so, to submit a plan to the Committee to update the program to ensure that no subsidy is being received. Requires the AOC, if the Committee fails to act on the plan within 60 days, to take appropriate steps to increase rates or fees to ensure reimbursement for the cost of the program.
Empowering Financial Institutions to Fight Human Trafficking Act of 2018 This bill allows a qualified nonprofit organization to share information with financial institutions and other authorities regarding possible human trafficking or related money laundering activities. The Department of the Treasury must determine which financial institutions are eligible to receive this information. Nonprofit organizations, financial institutions, and other authorities shall not be held liable for sharing this information in compliance with specified regulations.
Teacher Victims' Family Assistance Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Education to provide assistance to the immediate families of teachers or other elementary and secondary school employees who are killed by another person's violent act while performing school duties. Such assistance includes funeral assistance, a death benefit, living assistance, and undergraduate education assistance for dependents. The bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to exempt from income tax: (1) the victim's compensation from school employment in the year of death, and (2) the victim's family assistance. The bill also establishes the Teacher Victims' Family Trust Fund funded with an excise tax increase on ammunition.
Skilled Workforce Enhancement Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide small employers with an income tax credit for certain long-term training of employees in highly skilled metalworking trades.
Servicemembers Educational Opportunity Act of 1999 - Amends Federal basic educational assistance provisions to authorize enhanced educational assistance to a member of the armed forces who, after September 30, 1999: (1) first enters on active duty, (2) reenlists or continues to serve on active duty. (3) serves a continuous period of active duty of four years. Or (4) serves and is discharged or released for a service-connected disability, at the convenience of the Government , or due to a reduction in force. Requires each such member to also have completed the requirements of a secondary school diploma or its equivalent by no later than the original ending date before such extension of duty. Limits to 36 months the period for such enhanced assistance, with a special rule for certain early separations. Requires the payment of educational expenses under such program, including 90 percent of the costs of tuition and fees, and reasonable costs of books, and other supplies. Requires such amounts to be considered income for purposes of eligibility for Federal educational loans or grants under the Higher Education Act of 1965. Provides: (1) a monthly stipend for approved programs of education, with different rates for programs pursued on a full-time, three quarter-time, or half-time basis. And (2) tutorial assistance. Repeals, with respect to such assistance: (1) a required monthly reduction in pay for individuals who do not elect to participate in such assistance program. And (2) a provision authorizing individuals to elect not to receive such assistance.
Land Management Agency Housing Improvement Act of 1994 - Authorizes the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture to make employee housing available on or off public lands and to rent or lease housing to employees at a reasonable value. Directs the Secretaries to conduct a survey of the availability of quarters at field units at least every five years. Authorizes the Secretaries to provide suitable quarters under this Act if such survey indicates that government owned or suitable privately owned quarters are not available to the personnel assigned to a specific duty station. Authorizes the Secretaries to: (1) determine that secondary quarters for employees who are permanently duty stationed at remote locations and are regularly required to relocate for temporary periods are necessary for the effective administration of an area. And (2) make such secondary quarters available to employees either on or off public lands. Requires the Secretaries to survey all existing government owned employee housing facilities under the jurisdiction of the Departments of the Interior and of Agriculture to assess physical condition and suitability. Directs the Secretaries to develop an agency-wide priority listing, by structure, identifying those units in greatest need of repair, rehabilitation, replacement, or initial construction and to transmit such survey and listing to specified congressional committees. Specifies that: (1) unless otherwise provided by law, expenditure of any funds appropriated for construction, repair, or rehabilitation shall follow the priority listing established by each agency. And (2) funding available from other sources for employee housing repair may be distributed as determined by the Secretaries. Authorizes appropriations.
Rights of the Child Act of 1997 - Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should submit and seek the advice and consent of the Senate by December 31, 1998, to ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Directs the Attorney General, before such submission, to meet with the attorneys general of the States and US territories to determine their recommendations concerning any limitations that should accompany a proposed resolution of ratification of the U. N. Convention on the Rights of the Child. Establishes an advisory commission concerning the economic, social, cultural, political, and civil rights of children. Directs the commission to report to the Congress any recommendations agreed to by a majority of its members on any limitations to the Convention on the Rights of the Child advisable to facilitate ratification. Authorizes additional appropriations for US contributions to: (1) the International Labor Organization for the activities of the International Program on the Elimination of Child Labor. And (2) the U. N. Commission on Human Rights for programs relating to bonded child labor that are carried out by the Subcommittee and Working Group on Contemporary Forms of Slavery. Prohibits the importation into the United States of any product manufactured or mined, in whole or in part, by bonded child labor. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations to carry out this prohibition. Prohibits US assistance to the government of a foreign country for any fiscal year unless the President certifies to the Congress for such fiscal year that such government has enacted, and is enforcing, laws against child prostitution and the sexual exploitation of children. Authorizes waivers of such prohibition in the national security interest of the United States.
Acid Rain and Mercury Control Act - Amends the Clean Air Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to promulgate regulations to reduce specified amounts of aggregate sulfur dioxide emissions and nitrogen oxide emissions from power plants by January 1, 2012. Authorizes the regulations to include market-oriented mechanisms. Requires the Administrator to coordinate with federal and state governments to increase energy efficiency, to increase the use of renewable energy, and to implement cost saving advanced demand and supply side policies. Requires a power plant, by the later of the date that is 30 years after it commenced operation or the date that is five years after this Act's enactment, to comply with the specified new source performance standards and specified requirements applicable to modified sources under the Clean Air Act. Considers affected units that commence operation after December 31, 2010, to be new units. Prohibits such units from exceeding the mercury emission limit of 0.6 pounds mercury per trillion Btu upon commencement of operation. Prohibits affected units that commence operation on or before December 31, 2010, from exceeding such limit by January 1, 2013. Sets forth penalties for excess emissions. Requires the Administrator to ensure that mercury captured or recovered by emission controls installed at affected units is not re-released into the environment. Prohibits owners or operators of electricity generating facilities from: (1) operating such facilities in noncompliance with the requirements of this Act. (2) failing to submit allowances or penalties or to provide and comply with any plan to offset excess emissions. And (3) emitting mercury in excess of the emission limitations. Prohibits any person from holding, using, or transferring emission allowances allocated under such Act that are not in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Administrator. Declares that nothing in this Act affects the ability of states to take actions to further limit sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, or mercury. Directs the Administrator to promulgate regulations to protect specified sensitive ecosystems if the emissions reductions under title VII of the Clean Air Act are not sufficient to ensure the protection and restoration of such ecosystems.
College Research Education and Teacher Excellence (CREATE) Opportunity Act of 2012 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to make the research tax credit permanent. Makes 100 of a taxpayer's expenditures for qualified research at an institution of higher education eligible for the research tax credit. Considers research in the social sciences to be qualified research, eligible for the research tax credit. Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to allow the Secretary of Education to award a student two Pell Grants during a single award year if the student is enrolled in an associate degree or certificate program at a junior or community college on at least a half-time basis for the equivalent of more than one academic year during the Pell Grant award year. Treats a Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education (TEACH) Grant as a Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan only in proportion to the extent to which its recipient fails to comply with the Grant's service obligation.
SCORE for Small Business Act of 2012 - Amends the Small Business Act to reauthorize for FY2013-FY2015 the SCORE program . Requires the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to ensure that SCORE volunteers are adequately oriented and trained in areas and disciplines necessary to ensure successful, outcome-oriented interactions relating to services provided by the SCORE program. Directs the Administrator to ensure that the SCORE program and each SCORE chapter develop and implement plans and goals: (1) for outreach to individuals in rural, ethnically diverse, minority, and underserved communities. And (2) to more effectively and efficiently provide services to individuals in such communities. Requires the SCORE Association to report annually to the Administrator on SCORE counseling and training, as well as on the number of small businesses created or expanded with SCORE assistance. Outlines privacy requirements of the Administrator and the SCORE Association with respect to the disclosure of information concerning businesses assisted under the SCORE program.
Southern Sea Otter Recovery and Research Act - Requires the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the United States Geological Survey (USGS), to carry out a Recovery and Research Program for southern sea otter populations along the coast of California that includes: (1) monitoring, analysis, and assessment of population demographics, health, mortality, and life history parameters. And (2) implementation of measures to reduce or eliminate potential factors limiting populations that are related to marine ecosystem health or human activities. Requires the Secretary to: (1) appoint persons to a southern sea otter recovery implementation team as authorized under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 within a year. (2) establish a peer-reviewed, merit-based process to award competitive grants for research regarding such otters and for projects assisting the recovery of otter populations. And (3) establish a peer review panel to provide scientific advice and guidance to prioritize proposals for grants. Authorizes research grant topics to include: (1) causes of sea otter mortality, (2) southern sea otter demographics and natural history. (3) effects and sources of pollutants, nutrients, and toxicants on such otters and sequestration of contaminants. (4) effects and sources of infectious diseases and parasites affecting such otters. (5) limitations on the availability of food resources for such otters and the impacts of food limitation on southern sea otter carrying capacity. (6) interactions between southern sea otters and coastal fisheries and other human activities in the marine environment. (7) assessment of the keystone ecological role of sea otters in southern and central California's coastal marine ecosystems. And (8) assessment of the adequacy of emergency response and contingency plans. Authorizes funded recovery projects to include projects to: (1) protect and recover southern sea otters. (2) reduce, mitigate, or eliminate potential factors limiting southern sea otter populations that are related to human activities. And (3) implement emergency response and contingency plans. Requires the Secretary, within 12 months, to report to Congress on: (1) the status of southern sea otter populations, (2) implementation of the research and grant programs. And (3) endangered species consultations regarding southern sea otters. Requires the Secretary, within 24 months and every five years thereafter, to report to Congress and the public on: (1) an evaluation of southern sea otter health, causes of southern sea otter mortality, and the interactions of southern sea otters with California's coastal marine ecosystems. (2) an evaluation of actions taken to improve otter health, reduce mortality, and improve southern sea otter habitat. (3) recommendation for actions to improve otter health, reduce the occurrence of human-related mortality, and improve the health of such coastal marine ecosystems. And (4) recommendations for funding to implement this Act. Authorizes appropriations for each of FY2010-FY2015. Terminates this Act on the date the Secretary publishes a determination that the southern sea otter should be removed from the endangered species and threatened species lists.
Emergency Unemployment Compensation Amendments of 1993 - Amends the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 1991 to extend the authorization for new claims for benefits under the emergency unemployment compensation (EUC) program to October 2, 1993 . Modifies the final phase-out period for continuation of claims to end it on January 15, 1994 . Provides for a similar extension of the program of temporary extended railroad unemployment insurance benefits . Directs the Secretary of Labor to establish a program to encourage all States to adopt and implement a system for profiling all new claimants for regular unemployment compensation, to determine which claimants may be likely to exhaust such compensation and need reemployment assistance services. Requires provision of such technical assistance, advice, and funding to States for model profiling systems as the Secretary deems appropriate and necessary. Requires the Secretary to report, with recommendations, to the Congress on such systems within 30 months after enactment of this Act. Authorizes appropriations and the use of advance account funds to carry out the extension of the EUC program. Designates all direct spending amounts provided and all appropriations authorized by this Act as emergency requirements for purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 . Eliminates a cost of living adjustment relating to the pay for Members of Congress for 1994.
Native American Commercial Driving Training and Technical Assistance Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to award grants to eligible entities to support commercial vehicle driving training programs. Requires the Secretary to give priority to grant applications that propose: (1) training that exceeds proposed minimum standards for training tractor-trailer drivers of the Department of Transportation. (2) training that exceeds the entry level truck driver certification standards set by the Professional Truck Driver Institute. And (3) education partnerships with private trucking firms, trucking associations, or similar entities. Authorizes appropriations.
Medicare Safety Net Access Act of 2002 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to revise the payment for certain Federally qualified health center (FQHC) services furnished to an individual enrolled with a MedicareChoice organization under Medicare part C (MedicareChoice), allowing for supplemental reimbursement, among other changes. Amends MedicareChoice to add additional MedicareChoice contract requirements. Amends SSA title XI with respect to criminal penalties for acts involving Federal health care programs, particularly illegal remunerations (kickbacks). Exempts from the prohibition against such remunerations any remuneration: (1) between a FQHC and a MedicareChoice organization pursuant to a specified written agreement. And (2) between a certain kind of public or nonprofit private health center entity and any individual or entity providing goods, items, services, donations, loans, or a combination, to such health center entity pursuant to an agreement, if such agreement produces a community benefit that will be used by the health center entity to maintain or increase the availability or accessibility, or enhance the quality, of services provided to a medically underserved population served by the health center entity. Amends Medicare to provide for coverage of additional FQHC services. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish standards relating to the exception for health center entity arrangements to specified anti-kickback penalties.
Child Safety Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with public or nonprofit private entities to: (1) establish and operate supervised visitation centers for child abuse victims. And (2) assist such organizations in collecting data on the effect of supervised visitation on sexually abused or severely physically abused children. Authorizes appropriations.
American Community Renewal Act of 2002 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) provide for the designation of 20 additional renewal communities. (2) permit the nonrecognition of gain on proceeds of sales of real property which are invested in qualified renewal community zone assets. And (3) provide for the local allocation of commercial revitalization expenditure amounts if a State fails to adopt a qualified allocation plan.
Columbian Temporary Protected Status Act of 2002 - Expresses the sense of Congress in favor of extending temporary protected status to Columbian nationals in the United States. Designates Columbia under the Immigration and Nationality Act as a country undergoing an ongoing armed conflict in order to make qualifying Columbians living in the United States eligible aliens for temporary protected status.
Senior Citizens Against Marketing Scams Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal criminal code to provide for enhanced penalties for telemarketing fraud that targets or victimizes persons over age 55. Directs the court to order offenders to: (1) pay restitution to persons who sustained losses as a result of the fraudulent activity. And (2) forfeit to the United States property constituting or derived from proceeds obtained as a result of the offense. Requires the US Sentencing Commission to review and, if necessary, amend the sentencing guidelines to ensure that victim related adjustments for fraud offenses against persons over age 55 are adequate. Authorizes the Attorney General to make awards for furnishing information leading to the prosecution and conviction of telemarketing fraud offenders. Authorizes appropriations. Makes the mail fraud statute applicable to matter sent or delivered by any private or commercial interstate carrier. Sets forth provisions regarding fraud and related activity in connection with access devices. Directs the Attorney General to establish a national, toll-free telemarketing fraud hotline.
American Family Business Preservation Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the rate of estate tax on certain family-owned businesses. Provides for a recapture of tax benefits if the business is not held for at least ten years by the heirs or the heirs do not materially participate during such ten years. Provides that the limitation on the four percent rate of interest on estate tax extended for estates consisting largely of a closely held business is not applicable to estate tax attributable to qualified family-owned business interests. Extends the alternate valuation date from six months to 40 months for estates consisting largely of qualified family-owned business interests. Increases the tax exclusion for gifts to ancestors or descendants. Increases the unified estate and gift tax credits.
IP-Enabled Voice Communications and Public Safety Act of 2007 - Amends the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 to impose on IP-enabled voice service providers engaged in interstate or foreign communication a requirement to provide 9-1-1 service, including enhanced 9-1-1 service, to its subscribers. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to issue regulations granting IP-enabled voice service providers right of access to 9-1-1 components that are necessary to provide 9-1-1 service, on the same rates, terms, and conditions that are provided to commercial mobile service providers. Requires the providers to establish a point of contact for public safety and government officials relative to 9-1-1 service and access. Authorizes the FCC to delegate enforcement authority to state agencies or programs with emergency communications jurisdiction. Authorizes the FCC to require any provider of a voice service that is a substitute for telephone exchange service to provide 9-1-1 service, including enhanced 9-1-1 service. Requires that, when IP-enabled voice service or alternative emergency communications service is involved, there be parity in liability for service carriers, users, and public safety answering points (PSAPs). Defines alternative emergency communications service as the provision of emergency information to a PSAP via wire or radio communications, possibly including 9-1-1 and enhanced 9-1-1 services. Declares that nothing in this Act, the Communications Act of 1934, the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999, or any FCC regulation or order prevents states, their subdivisions, or Indian tribes from imposing a fee on or collecting a fee from IP-enabled voice services to support 9-1-1 or E-9-1-1 services. Requires the FCC to report annually to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the House of Representatives Committee on Energy and Commerce on the status in each state of the collection and distribution of 9-1-1 fees. Amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to require the E-9-1-1 Implementation Coordination Office to develop a national plan for migrating to a national IP-enabled emergency network. Requires, after plan completion, grants for migration to such a network. Authorizes the FCC to compile a list of PSAP contact information, as well as contact information for 9-1-1 component providers, to assist providers in complying with this Act and specified provisions of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act. Allows the FCC to make any part of that information available to the public to improve public safety. Requires the FCC to work cooperatively with public safety organizations, industry participants, and the E-9-1-1 Implementation Coordination Office to develop best practices that promote consistency. Requires the FCC to enforce the Wireless Communications and Public Safety Act of 1999 as if that Act was part of the Communications Act of 1934 and deems any violation to be a violation of the Communications Act of 1934. Sets deadlines for: (1) the FCC to remit all amounts promised for the completion of an update to the Report on Technical and Operational Issues Impacting the Provision of Wireless Enhanced 9-1-1 Services, and (2) the filing of related written findings.
Native American Challenge Demonstration Project Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish and implement the Native American Challenge Demonstration Project through which federal economic development assistance may be provided for certain Native American communities. Authorizes the Secretary to provide such assistance to eligible entities that enter into Native American Challenge Compacts with the United States pursuant to this Act. Requires that Compacts establish a multi-year plan for achieving development objectives in furthering the purposes of this Act, including to adapt the lessons of foreign aid to underdeveloped economies to the provision of federal economic development assistance to similarly situated remote Native American communities.
Teaching Children to Save Lives Act of 2011 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to local educational agencies or public elementary or secondary schools to implement nationally recognized cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated external defibrillator (AED) training courses. Allows a grant to be used to purchase an AED training device if the grantee implements or has implemented an AED training program in conjunction with a CPR training program.
Timely Payment for Veterans' Medical Care Act This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into contracts with an eligible entity to serve as an administrative contractor with respect to the performance of any or all of the following functions relating to providing medical care and hospital services in non-VA facilities: determining and making the payments required to be made to a non-VA facility. Providing education and outreach to individuals enrolled in the patient enrollment system. Providing consultative services to institutions, agencies, and other persons to enable them to maintain necessary fiscal records. Communicating to non-VA facilities any information or instructions furnished to the administrative contractor by the VA. And performing functions relating to non-VA facility education, training, and technical assistance. An administrative contractor that performs such payment-related functions shall implement a contractor-wide information security program. The VA shall use claims payment error rates or similar methodology of administrative contractors in the processing or reviewing of claims in order to give such contractors an incentive to implement effective education and outreach programs for non-VA facilities.
Consultation and Coordination with Indian Tribal Governments Act - Requires the Department of the Interior, the Indian Health Service, and the National Indian Gaming Commission, when formulating, amending, implementing, or rescinding policies that have tribal implications, to adhere to certain fundamental principles and policymaking criteria, including that the United States: (1) has a unique legal and political relationship with Indian tribal governments, (2) recognizes the right of Indian tribes to self government. And (3) shall encourage Indian tribes to develop their own policies to meet program objectives. Prohibits such entities from formulating, amending, or implementing policies that impose substantial direct compliance costs on Indian tribal governments and are not required by federal law, unless: (1) funds necessary to pay such costs are provided by the federal government. Or (2) the entities consulted with tribal officials early in the process of developing the proposed policy and provided a tribal summary impact statement to specified congressional committees and affected tribes. Requires such entities to have accountable consultation processes and to explore and use consensual mechanisms for developing policies on issues relating to tribal self-government, tribal trust resources, or Indian tribal treaty and other rights. Prohibits such entities from implementing policies that have tribal implications and that preempt tribal law unless the entities: (1) consulted with tribal officials in the policy's development. And (2) provided to specified congressional committees and affected Indian tribes a tribal summary impact statement. Sets forth provisions concerning the process for Indian tribes applying for waivers from requirements.
Antitrust Modernization Commission Act of 2001 - Establishes the Antitrust Modernization Commission to study and report to Congress and the President on issues and problems relating to the modernization of the antitrust laws. Directs the Commission to: (1) solicit divergent views of all parties concerned with the operation of such laws. And (2) evaluate the advisability of proposals and current arrangements with respect to such issues and problems.
Deficit Reduction Check-Off Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual taxpayers to designate on their tax returns an amount for reducing the federal deficit. Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to require a sequestration to reduce the federal deficit within 15 days after Congress adjourns to end a session by directing the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to apply an across-the-board reduction in federal spending equal to 10 times the amount raised by the voluntary tax checkoff under this Act. Exempts from such spending reduction social security and railroad retirement benefits, Medicare benefits, judicial salaries, and veterans benefits.
Gang Prevention and Youth Recreation Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make grants to not more than ten selected cities to assist them to establish and operate teen resource and education centers to provide education, employment, recreation, social, and cultural awareness assistance to at-risk youth. Authorizes the Secretary to make such grants to a city if it applies and agrees to operate at least two such centers. Requires such centers to offer for at-risk youth: (1) educational assistance, including information on institutions of higher education, assistance with financial aid applications and scholarship search, and preparatory courses for high school equivalency and college entrance examinations. (2) employment and skills training, including hiring teen peer counselors to provide basic job skills training, job referral services, and job banks. (3) recreational opportunities, such as sports teams, neighborhood gardening and food distribution, creative activities and arts, and reading programs. (4) social skills development, including hiring adult counselors and providing support groups for counseling on social and personal issues. And (5) cultural awareness programs, such as classes in the history and culture of various cultural groups and productions of plays, stories, and artwork reflecting the cultural heritage of such youth. Requires such centers to provide financial assistance to college graduates who work full-time at the center to assist them to repay part of their student loan debt. Sets forth grant selection, allocation, and reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations.
Congressional Foreign Travel Reform Act of 2010 - Authorizes the House of Representatives and the Senate to obtain local currencies of foreign nations to provide a per diem allowance to a Member, officer, or employee of each chamber on official foreign travel, if the individual obtains an authorization to receive such an allowance from the appropriate specified congressional officer or committee chairman. Limits such local currency to up to the equivalent of $75 per day per person, or the authorized maximum per diem allowance for federal employees while traveling in a foreign country, whichever is greater, exclusive of the actual cost of transportation. Prohibits any Member or employee of the House from undertaking any official foreign travel unless, within 14 days before and within 14 days after such travel, the individual prepares and makes available for public inspection a specified statement containing certain travel-related information. Prohibits a vacation stopover for annual leave at any point during official foreign travel. Specifies restrictions on official foreign travel by Member and House committee employees, except travel to a military installation or to a theater of operations of the Armed Forces. Requires Members of the House and employees who undertake official foreign travel to: (1) take necessary actions to reduce travel costs. And (2) return any per diem remaining unexpended at conclusion of the travel.
Asia-South Pacific Trade Preferences Act - Authorizes the President to designate an Asia or South Pacific country as a beneficiary Asia or South Pacific country eligible for preferential treatment under this Act if that country meets: (1) certain requirements under the African Growth and Opportunity Act, including establishing a market-based economy and the rule of law, the protection of human rights, and the elimination of trade barriers to the United States. And (2) certain eligibility criteria for designation as a least-developed beneficiary developing country under the Trade Act of 1974. Lists the following countries eligible for designation as a Asia or South Pacific country: (1) Afghanistan, (2) Bangladesh, (3) Bhutan, (4) Cambodia, (5) Kiribati, (6) Lao People's Democratic Republic, (7) Maldives, (8) Nepal, (9) Samoa, (10) Solomon Islands, (11) Timor-Leste , (12) Tuvalu, and (13) Vanuatu. Authorizes the President to provide duty-free treatment of certain import-sensitive articles meeting rules of origin requirements if: (1) the article is the growth, product, or manufacture of a beneficiary Asia or South Pacific country. And (2) the President determines, after receiving advice of the International Trade Commission (ITC), that the article is not import-sensitive in the context of imports from beneficiary Asia or South Pacific countries. Prescribes the rules of origin for the articles for the duty-free treatment. Grants duty-free treatment of certain textile and apparel articles imported directly into the customs territory of the United States from a beneficiary Asia or South Pacific country. Establishes limitations on such preferential treatment. Prescribes requirements for handloomed, handmade, folklore articles or ethnic printed fabrics. Prescribes a special rule to extend such preferential treatment through December 31, 2019, for textile and apparel articles that are wholly assembled in one or more beneficiary or former beneficiary Asia or South Pacific countries, or both, regardless of the country or origin of the yarn or fabric used to make such articles. Terminates the extension of preferential treatment to a beneficiary Asia or South Pacific country after December 31, 2022.
National Narcotics Leadership Act Amendments of 1993 - Amends the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988 to authorize the Director for National Drug Control Policy to require the budget submission to the Office of Management and Budget by any National Drug Control Program agency to include funding requests for specific initiatives that are consistent with the President's priorities for the National Drug Control Strategy and certifications made regarding the adequacy of such request to implement the objectives of the Strategy for the relevant year. Requires the Director to report to the Congress on a quarterly basis regarding the need for any reprogramming or transfer of appropriated funds for Program activities in an amount greater than $5 million. Prohibits a Federal officer in the Office of National Drug Control Policy who is appointed by the President from participating in Federal election campaign activities, except that such an official is not thereby prohibited from making contributions to individual candidates. Revises provisions regarding the Strategy to: (1) include long-range goals for reducing the consequences of drug abuse. And (2) require the Director to include an evaluation of the effectiveness of Federal drug control during the preceding year. Specifies that such evaluation shall include an assessment of Federal drug control efforts, including: (1) an assessment of the reduction of drug use, drug availability, and associated consequences. And (2) a determination of the status of US drug treatment. Requires: (1) the Director to include with the Strategy specified information regarding assessment of drug use measurement, identification of factors restricting the availability of treatment, and proposed remedies to make such treatment available and to report to the President and the Congress on drug use and availability in the United States. And (2) Federal agencies responsible for the collection or estimation of drug-related information to cooperate with the Director to satisfy such requirements. Designates the Director as a member of the National Security Council. Requires: (1) the Director to identify and support, through interagency agreements or grants that are subjected to peer review by independent advisory boards, the application of technology to expanding the effectiveness or availability of drug treatment. And (2) the Director of the Advanced Research Project Agency to assist and support the Office and its Director. Repeals provisions of the Act pertaining to an executive reorganization study. Authorizes the Director to pay the expenses for assemblage of individuals providing consultation in developing the Strategy. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the Office on September 30, 1994.
Grants a Federal charter to the Association of American State Geologists .
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to expand the definition of refined coal for purposes of the tax credit for electricity produced from certain renewable resources to include coal produced from a qualified coal waste sludge recycling process. Defines qualified coal waste sludge recycling process as a process using a facility to liquefy coal waste sludge and distribute the liquefied coal waste sludge on the coal to create a feedstock for the manufacture of coke.
Volunteer First Responder Housing Act This bill expands eligibility for assistance undernbsp. The Department of Agriculture Single Family Housing Guaranteed Loan Program and the Department of Housing and Urban Development Good Neighbor Next Door Sales Program with respect to qualified volunteer first responders.
No Entry for Supporters of the Iranian Regime Act of 2010 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to make inadmissible to the United States an alien who: (1) engages in certain sanctionable activities with Iran, including the development of Iran's petroleum resources, the proliferation of Iranian weapons of mass destruction, or support for terrorism by Iran. Or (2) has a controlling managing or shareholder interest in an entity that engages in such activities. Authorizes presidential waiver of such prohibition under specified conditions.
Religious Liberty and Charitable Donation Protection Act of 1998 - Amends Federal bankruptcy law with respect to avoidance by the trustee in bankruptcy of fraudulent transfers and obligations to cite circumstances under which a transfer of a charitable contribution to a qualified religious or charitable unit shall not be considered to be fraudulent. Prohibits the trustee from avoiding such charitable contributions when acting as lien creditor and successor to certain creditors and purchasers. Excludes from disposable income, for purposes of bankruptcy plan confirmation, up to 15 percent of the gross income of the debtor when it is expended for such charitable contributions. Prohibits the bankruptcy court, when it determines whether to dismiss a case, from taking into consideration whether a debtor makes charitable contributions to any qualified religious or charitable entity.
Amends Federal transportation law to direct the Secretary of Transportation to carry out a grant program to provide financial assistance to States for 90 percent of the cost of local rail line relocation projects.
Opioid Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 2014 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants to states to develop a peer review process to identify and investigate questionable or inappropriate prescribing and dispensing patterns of drugs classified as schedule II or III under the Controlled Substances Act, which are drugs with an accepted medical use that have the potential to be abused and addictive. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary to establish grant programs to: (1) facilitate training to increase the capacity of health care providers to screen and treat patients to prevent drug abuse, and (2) develop continuing education criteria that allow health profession boards or state agencies to certify appropriate education for safe prescribing of schedule II or III drugs. Requires the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration to award grants to evaluate the prospect of state health professions boards expanding the authority of providers to prescribe drugs to treat drug abuse. Requires the Attorney General to request that practitioners registered to dispense controlled substances screen patients for potential drug abuse before prescribing a schedule II or III drug. Directs the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to consider whether naloxone should be available without a prescription. Requires the Secretary to use an interagency working group to encourage states and local governments to increase opportunities for disposal of opiates and to reduce opportunities for abuse of opiates. Requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review federal opioid abuse activities and make recommendations to reduce opioid abuse and overdoses.
Iranian Nuclear Trade Prohibition Act of 2005 - Expresses the sense of Congress that countries should choose between trading with state sponsors of terrorism or maintaining good trade relations with the United States. Amends the Iran and Libya Sanctions Act of 1996 to direct the President to prohibit the United States or any US entity from purchasing nuclear fuel assemblies from any person or government or affiliated entity that sells nuclear fuel assemblies to Iran. Authorizes the President, with congressional notification, to waive such prohibition for national security purposes.
Child Opportunity Zone Family Center Act of 2001 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to provide for Child Opportunity Zone Family Centers . Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to eligible partnerships for the Federal share of costs of establishing and expanding such centers.
Expresses the sense of the Senate on the need for a comprehensive diplomatic offensive to help broker national reconciliation efforts in Iraq and lay the foundation for the eventual redeployment of US combat forces.
This bill requires the US Army Corps of Engineers to transfer certain property within the exterior boundaries of the Standing Rock Indian Reservation within North Dakota that was acquired by the United States for the Oahe Dam and Reservoir Project to the Department of the Interior to be held in trust for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe of North and South Dakota. The Corps of Engineers shall convey to North Dakota all right of the United States to certain property in Burleigh County, Emmons County, or Morton County in North Dakota that was acquired by the United States for such project and and that is located above the top of the exclusive flood pool of the project. The transfer of such land shall not interfere with any of the authorized purposes of such project, any project of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program, or any applicable law. The Corps of Engineers shall retain: (1) the right to inundate with water or cause erosion to the transferred lands as necessary for the operation of such projects. And (2) any land, structures, easements or other property interests necessary to carry out such projects. The Tribe and North Dakota shall be responsible for the payment of costs and administrative expenses associated with the transfers and for any coordination necessary with respect to requirements related to endangered species, cultural resources, and clean air.
Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to allow the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), using amounts in an account for the purpose of providing loan guarantees , to guarantee loans to volunteer fire and rescue agencies for the entire principal and interest on the loan for specified volunteer fire and rescue services, including to purchase equipment necessary for proper performance of the agency's duties, to repair, rehabilitate, or otherwise improve the agency's existing facilities, and for carrying out public education programs regarding fire prevention, life safety, and arson. Sets forth loan terms and conditions. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes appropriations to the Director for FY 2001 and 2002 for making grants directly to local fire and rescue services for equipment, including interoperability radio equipment. Authorizes the Director to make grants on a competitive basis to: (1) safety organizations that have experience in conducting burn safety programs for assisting those organizations in conducting such programs or augmenting existing burn prevention programs. (2) hospitals that serve as regional burn centers to conduct acute burn research. And (3) governmental and nongovernmental entities to provide after-burn treatment and counseling to individuals that are burn victims. Creates an office in FEMA to establish specific criteria of grant recipients and to administer such grants. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Director to establish a program to award grants to volunteer, paid, and combined departments that provide fire and emergency medical services. Permits such grants to be used, among other things, to: (1) acquire personal protective equipment required for firefighting personnel by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other personal protective equipment for firefighting personnel. (2) acquire additional firefighting equipment, including equipment for communication and monitoring. (3) establish wellness and fitness programs for firefighting personnel to reduce the number of injuries and deaths related to health and conditioning problems, (4) promote professional development of fire code enforcement personnel. (5) integrate computer technology to improve records management and training capabilities. (6) fund fire prevention programs and public education programs about arson prevention and detection, and juvenile fire setter intervention. And (7) modify fire stations, fire training facilities, and other facilities to protect the health and safety of firefighting personnel. Provides for grant recipients to be subject to audits to ensure that the funds are spent for their intended purposes. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to direct the Federal Communications Commission, in addition to the allocations and assignments otherwise made with respect to new public safety services licenses and commercial licenses, within 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, to allocate the electromagnetic spectrum between 139 megahertz and 140.5 megahertz, inclusive, and between 141.5 megahertz and 143 megahertz, inclusive, to interoperability use by public safety services. Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary of the Interior for FY 2001 for the US Geological Survey for the Hazard Support System for system improvements and for operation and maintenance. Directs such Secretary to transmit to Congress a report on the results of a study, carried out in consultation with the National Interagency Fire Center and State fire services, of the best methods of disseminating data from such System to State and local fire mitigation entities for realtime fire detection. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to include as activities eligible for assistance under the community development block grant program the provision of assistance to local firefighting, emergency medical, or rescue units serving low-income communities for: (1) acquisition, repair, or rehabilitation of equipment or vehicles for firefighting, emergency medical, or rescue services. (2) construction, acquisition, rehabilitation, or improvement of facilities for local firefighting, emergency medical, or rescue services. Or (3) training or planning involved in providing fire fighting, emergency medical, or rescue services. States that such an assisted activity shall be considered to benefit persons of low and moderate income if the service provides such services to low- and moderate-income persons.
Emergency Transportation Safety Fund Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the tax rate on current and accumulated foreign earnings of US corporations reinvested in the United States and make such lower rate permanent. Establishes the Emergency Transportation Safety Fund and makes appropriations to it. Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to compile a prioritized list of emergency transportation projects, which will guide the allocation of Fund amounts to the states.
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Governance Improvement Act of 2009 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to revise requirements regarding the composition and duties of members of the board of directors of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). Requires: (1) the board to meet at least four times a year with a quorum of at least five members. And (2) board minutes be made public. Requires the advisory committee to the PBGC to meet jointly with the board at least one time each year. Requires the Director and members of the board of the PBGC to agree in writing to recuse themselves from participation in activities which potentially could be a conflict of interest. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the board should form committees, including an audit committee and an investment committee, to enhance the PBGC board's overall effectiveness. And (2) the PBGC should establish a risk management position that evaluates and mitigates risk it might experience.
Medicare Drug Card Guaranteed Savings Act - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for the offering of a Federal national prescription drug discount card program. Charges a $30 fee for the card under the program. Provides for direct negotiations by the Secretary of Health and Human Services with prescription drug manufacturers to obtain discount prices that are to be less than prices otherwise available in the retail market. Provides that: (1) for periods beginning with January 1, 2005, the only discount card program in which an individual may be enrolled shall be the Federal national prescription drug discount card program. And (2) individuals enrolled in another program as of December 31, 2004, who do not affirmatively disenroll from all discount card programs are deemed to be enrolled in such Federal national prescription drug discount card program.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code relating to the first-time homebuyer tax credit to: (1) extend such credit to all purchasers of a principal residence. (2) limit the credit to one sale or exchange of a principal residence. And (3) extend such credit through November 30, 2010. Allows individual taxpayers a tax deduction through 2010 for losses from the sale or exchange of a principal residence.
Fluke Fairness Act of 2013 - Directs the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council to submit for approval by the Secretary of Commerce a modified fishery management plan for the commercial and recreational management of summer flounder, or an amendment to such plan, that: (1) is based on the best scientific information available. (2) reflects changes in the distribution, abundance, and location of summer flounder in establishing distribution of the commercial and recreational catch quotas. (3) considers regional, coastwide, or other management measures that comply with national standards under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. And (4) prohibits the allocation of catch quotas on a state-by-state basis using historical landings data that does not reflect the status of the summer flounder stock, based on the most recent scientific information. Requires the Council, in preparing such modifications or amendments, to consult with the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission. Directs the Secretary to prepare and approve a plan if the Council fails to submit such modifications or amendments. Requires a Comptroller General (GAO) report that assesses whether the subsequent implementation of the approved plan complies with national standards.
National Telecommuting and Air Quality Act - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to make a grant to a nonprofit private entity for the purpose of developing a design for a proposed ozone precursor credit-trading pilot program in which: (1) methods would be evaluated and developed for calculating reductions in emissions of ozone precursors that can be achieved as a result of reduced vehicle-miles-traveled (VMTs) by telecommuting employees. (2) regulated entities would present emission credits to the Federal Government or to the State and the amounts of reductions in emissions of air pollutants represented by such credits would be for purposes of compliance with the Clean Air Act. And (3) the Federal Government would explore means to facilitate the transfer of emission credits between participating employers and regulated and other entities. Sets forth recommended sites for the operation of such pilot program, including: (1) the greater metropolitan region of the District of Columbia, (2) the greater metropolitan region of Los Angeles, California. And (3) three additional areas to be selected by the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to require the grantee to study and report to Congress and to the Secretary on the potential significance of the proposed pilot program as an incentive for expanding telecommuting and reducing VMTs in the geographic areas, and the extent to which it would have positive effects on national, State, and local air quality and energy conservation and consumption. Authorizes appropriations.
Cosmetology Tax Fairness and Compliance Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend the tax credit for social security taxes paid for employee cash tips to employers of cosmetologists. Requires employers of cosmetologists to report income and tips of their cosmetologist employees and to provide income and tip information to self-employed cosmetologists to whom they pay more than $600 in the taxable year. Imposes similar reporting requirements upon individuals who rent chairs to cosmetologists. Requires such employers to provide their cosmetologist employees and self-employed cosmetologists with information on the tax and tip reporting obligations of employees and self-employed individuals.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for caregivers of individuals with long-term care needs in an amount equal to $1,200 for each such individual with respect to whom the taxpayer is an eligible caregiver for the taxable year.
Amends the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 to: (1) authorize the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to carry out a Centennial Challenge Program to award prizes to stimulate innovation in basic and applied research, technology development, and prototype demonstration that have the potential for application to the performance of NASA's space and aeronautical activities. And (2) establish a charitable and nonprofit corporation to be known as the National Aeronautics and Space Foundation to encourage private gifts of real and personal property for the benefit of, or in connection with, NASA and to further the public's knowledge of, and inspiration by, the Earth and space.
Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 1998 - Authorizes the President to award, and present in the name of the Congress, a Medal of Valor to a public safety officer who is cited by the Attorney General, on the advice of the Medal of Valor Review Board , for extraordinary valor above and beyond the call of duty. Establishes a permanent Medal of Valor Review Board to select candidates as recipients of the Medal from among those applications received by the National Medal Office . Authorizes appropriations. Establishes within the Department of Justice a National Medal Office to staff the Review Board and to establish criteria and procedures for the submission of recommendations of nominees for the Medal. Repeals provisions of the Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 establishing the President's Award for Outstanding Public Safety Service and the Secretary of Commerce's Award for Distinguished Public Safety Service. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) consult with the Institute of Heraldry within the Department of Defense regarding the design and artistry of the Medal of Valor. And (2) consider suggestions received by the Department of Justice regarding the design of the medal, including those made by persons not employed by the Department.
Permanent Families for All Children Act - Amends part E of title IV of the Social Security Act to: limit to 36 the number of months for which foster care maintenance payments made on behalf of a child not in a legal guardianship or kinship guardian arrangement may be reimbursed. Limit to 12 the number of months for which foster care maintenance payments made to child-care institutions on behalf of a child residing in the institution may be reimbursed. Eliminate the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) income eligibility requirement for foster care maintenance payments. Replace the federal medical assistance percentage for foster care maintenance payments and related costs in a state with a foster care partnership rate for the quarter determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). And make children in residential treatment programs eligible for 50 of regular foster care maintenance payments. Directs the Secretary to increase the proportion of the amounts expended by a state for caseworker training on child-focused recruitment and retention. Increases the amount of spending for child welfare programs by the unused savings resulting from this Act. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize the cancellation of Federal Direct Student Loans for a social worker employed in a public child or family service agency after the social worker has made 60 monthly payments on the eligible loan after the enactment of this Act.
Title II: Worker Paycheck Fairness - Outlines worker rights with regard to the payment of dues or fees to labor organizations, requiring the following: (1) prior, voluntary written authorization for any portion of such dues or fees used for activities not necessary to performing the duties of the employee's exclusive representative in dealing with the employer on labor management issues. And (2) posting of notices to that effect by an employer with employees represented by a collective bargaining representative. Provides for civil actions by employees against labor organizations for violations involving written consent and for retaliation and coercion with regard to any employee who exercises any such right under this title. Amends the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 to do the following: (1) require certain expense reporting by labor organizations to allow members to determine the necessity of such expenses in the performance of the duties of the employee's exclusive representative in dealing with the employer on labor-management issues. And (2) require the Secretary of Labor to make available complete copies of reports by labor organizations, including annual financial reports or other related documents upon written request.
Establishes the San Juan Islands National Conservation Area in the state of Washington. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term management of the Conservation Area. Requires the Secretary to manage the Conservation Area in a manner to conserve, protect, and enhance the resources of such area. Authorizes the Secretary to prescribe measures for the control of nonnative invasive plants and noxious weeds within the Conservation Area. Instructs the Secretary to work with Indian tribes to ensure the protection of religious and cultural sites within the Conservation Area and to provide access to them by tribal members for traditional cultural and customary uses. Directs the Secretary to establish the San Juan Islands National Conservation Area Advisory Council to advise the Secretary on the preparation and implementation of the management plan.
Drug-Induced Rape Prevention and Punishment Act of 1996 - Amends the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) to impose penalties of up to 20 years' imprisonment and a fine for violating CSA provisions by distributing a controlled substance to an individual without that individual's knowledge, with intent to commit a crime of violence against such individual. Enhances penalties for certain activities involving flunitrazepam under: (1) the CSA, including manufacturing, distributing, or possessing with intent to distribute specified quantities of flunitrazepam. And (2) the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, including possessing, manufacturing, and distributing for purposes of unlawful importation of such quantities. Directs: (1) the United States Sentencing Commission to review and amend, as appropriate, the sentencing guidelines for offenses involving flunitrazepam and to ensure that such guidelines reflect the serious nature of such offenses. And (2) the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, in consultation with other Federal and State agencies as appropriate, to conduct a study on the appropriateness of rescheduling flunitrazepam as a Schedule I controlled substance. Sets forth reporting requirements. Authorizes the Attorney General to create educational materials regarding the use of controlled substances in the furtherance of rapes and sexual assaults for dissemination to police departments throughout the United States.
Securing Consumers' Assurance in Moving Act of 2003 - Amends Federal transportation law to provide that Federal regulations covering the transportation of household goods by motor private carriers shall not preempt State regulation of intrastate transportation of household goods by such carriers. Authorizes an individual or a State or local government to enforce a consumer protection law, regulation, or other provision with respect to the interstate transportation of household goods by a motor private carrier. Establishes a working group of State attorneys general, State consumer protection administrators, and Federal and local law enforcement officials to develop practices and procedures to enhance the Federal-State partnership in enforcement efforts with respect to interstate transportation of household goods by motor private carriers. Sets forth both civil and criminal penalties for persons found holding a household goods shipment hostage . Requires: (1) publication OCE 100 of the Department of Transportation (DOT), entitled Your Rights and Responsibilities When You Move be prominently displayed on the DOT Web site. And (2) motor carriers or brokers that maintain a web site to display certain household goods information. Establishes a system for filing and logging consumer complaints relating to motor carriers providing transportation of household goods. Requires the Secretary to review current Federal regulations regarding insurance coverage provided by a motor carrier providing transportation of household goods and to revise such regulations in order to enhance protection for shippers in the case of loss or damage. Provides civil penalties for a broker for transportation of household goods that: (1) makes an estimate of transportation costs of such goods before entering into a carrier agreement, or (2) provides services for such transportation without being registered.
Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to issue an order directing a VA employee to repay the amount, or a portion of the amount, of an award or bonus paid to the employee if: (1) the Secretary determines that such repayment is appropriate, and (2) the employee is afforded notice and an opportunity for a hearing. Makes the Secretary's repayment decisions final and unreviewable by any other agency or any court. Extends subcontracting limitations that apply to certain small businesses awarded contracts under various Small Business Administration (SBA) programs to small business concerns owned and controlled by veterans with or without service-connected disabilities who are awarded VA contracts. Requires, for purposes of applying such subcontracting limitations to veterans with small businesses awarded such VA contracts, that: (1) small businesses owned and controlled by veterans be treated in the same manner as small businesses owned and controlled by veterans with service-connected disabilities, and (2) quot, similarly situated entitiesquot. Include subcontractors for small businesses owned and controlled by a veteran with or without a service-connected disability . Directs the Secretary, before awarding such a contract, to obtain a certification from the offeror: (1) specifying and promising to comply with the subcontracting performance requirements applicable to such offeror, and (2) acknowledging that the certification is subject to criminal laws concerning false or fraudulent statements or representations. Subjects small businesses to fines, imprisonment, or both for not acting in good faith. Requires the VA's Director of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization and the VA's Chief Acquisition Officer to: (1) establish a process to monitor the subcontracting requirement compliance of veterans' small businesses that are awarded VA contracts, and (2) refer violations to the VA's Inspector General. Directs the Inspector General to submit annual reports to Congress regarding such violations. Requires: (1) the Secretary to review the prisoner of war (POW) lists of the VA and the Department of Defense to identify any discrepancies. And (2) the VA's Inspector General to review the process by which the Secretary determines that a veteran is a former prisoner of war. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress on the VA's POW list, including information on: (1) such discrepancies, and (2) the results of the Inspector General's review. Prohibits the Secretary from expanding the dialysis pilot program or creating any new VA dialysis capability in any facility other than an initial facility until after: the Secretary has implemented the pilot program at each initial facility for at least two years, an independent analysis of the program has been conducted at each initial facility, and the Secretary has submitted a report on such analysis to Congress. Requires the Secretary, in order to increase veterans' access to dialysis care and decrease the travel time required to receive such care, to fully use existing VA dialysis resources, including any community dialysis provider with which the Secretary has entered into a contract or agreement to provide such care.
Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2012 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise the nutritional information that restaurants and retail food establishments must disclose. Requires the nutrient content disclosure statement on the menu or menu board to include: (1) the number of calories contained in the whole product. (2) the number of servings and number of calories per serving. Or (3) the number of calories per the common unit division of the product, such as for a multi-serving item that is typically divided before presentation to the consumer. Permits such information to be provided by a remote-access menu, such as through the internet, for food establishments where the majority of orders are placed by customers who are off-premises at the time the order is placed. Defines reasonable basis for a restaurant or similar food establishments nutrient content disclosures to mean that the nutrient disclosure is within acceptable allowances for variation in nutrient content, which shall include allowances for variations in serving size, inadvertent human error in formulation of menu items, and variations in ingredients. Sets forth the methods a restaurant or similar food establishment may use to determine nutritional content for disclosure, including ranges, averages, individual labeling of flavors or components, or labeling of one preset standard build. Defines preset standard build as the finished version of a menu item most commonly ordered by consumers. Applies the nutritional disclosure requirements to retail food establishments that derive more than 50 of their total revenue from the sale of food.
Restitution and Responsibility Act - Authorizes the Attorney General to provide grants to enable the States to: (1) collect data on victim restitution over a specified period as determined by the Attorney General. (2) create or expand automated data systems to track restitution payments. (3) make improvements in the manner in which restitution is ordered and collected. And (4) enhance and expand methods of enforcement of restitution orders. Requires a State, to be eligible, to certify that it has a victim advocacy program that provides assistance to crime victims throughout the judicial process and provides courts with a victim impact statement prior to sentencing. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) application requirements, (2) waivers, (3) grant period, (4) reporting requirements, and (5) grant evaluation. Authorizes appropriations.
Nuclear Power Plant Safety Act of 2011 - Amends the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to direct the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to revise nuclear power plant safety regulations to ensure that each licensed utilization facility can withstand and adequately respond to: (1) an earthquake, tsunami , strong storm, or other event that threatens a major impact to the facility. (2) a loss of the primary operating power source for at least 14 days. And (3) a loss of the primary backup operating power source for at least 72 hours. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005, in connection with loan guarantees, to require the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to ensure, in the case of a guarantee for advanced nuclear energy facilities, that the cost of the obligation is calculated using a consideration of the Tohoku earthquake of 2011 to estimate the risk characteristics of the project.
Kosova Peace and Democracy Act of 1994 - Expresses the sense of the Congress with respect to ethnic relations and human rights in Kosova. Continues specified sanctions imposed against Serbia and Montenegro until the President certifies to the Congress that: (1) there is progress toward restoration of the independent identity and autonomy of Kosova. (2) there is improvement in the human rights situation in Kosova. (3) international human rights observers are allowed to return to Kosova. And (4) the elected government of Kosova is permitted to meet. Prohibits any funding on behalf of Serbia and Montenegro until such conditions have been met. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US executive directors of the international financial institutions to oppose assistance to Serbia or Montenegro, except for basic human needs, until such conditions have been met. Authorizes the President to waive or modify such sanctions, prohibitions, or conditions if necessary to meet emergency humanitarian needs or achieve a settlement of the conflict in Kosova acceptable to the parties. Directs the Chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting to submit a plan and a budget for the establishment of a surrogate home service under the auspices of Radio Free EuropeRadio Liberty for Albanian populations living in Kosova and other areas of the former Yugoslavia.
Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2016 This bill expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the United States should be a global leader in promoting the participation of women in conflict prevention, management, and resolution and post-conflict relief and recovery efforts. And (2) the political participation and leadership of women in fragile environments, particularly during democratic transitions, is critical to sustaining democratic institutions. The President, not later than October 1 of 2017, 2022, and 2027, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and make public a Women, Peace, and Security Strategy, which shall: be aligned with other nations' plans to improve the participation of women in peace and security processes, conflict prevention, peace building, and decision-making institutions. And include goals and evaluation plans to ensure strategy effectiveness. Such a strategy shall include a specific implementation plan from each relevant federal agency. The President is urged to promote women's participation in conflict prevention. It is the sense of Congress that the President should: (1) provide technical assistance and training to female negotiators, peace builders, and stakeholders, (2) address security-related barriers to women's participation. (3) increase women's participation in US-funded programs that provide foreign nationals with law enforcement, rule of law, or military education training, (4) support appropriate local organizations, especially women's peace building organizations. And (5) expand gender analysis to improve program design. The Department of State shall ensure that personnel responsible for, or deploying to, countries or regions considered to be at risk of undergoing, or emerging from, violent conflict obtain training in the following areas, each of which shall include a focus on ensuring participation by women: conflict prevention, mitigation, and resolution, protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and trafficking in persons. And international human rights law. The Department of Defense shall ensure that relevant personnel receive training in: conflict prevention, peace processes, mitigation, resolution, and security initiatives that addresses the importance of participation by women. And gender considerations and participation by women, including training regarding international human rights law and protecting civilians from violence, exploitation, and trafficking in persons. The State Department and the US Agency for International Development shall establish guidelines for overseas US personnel to consult with stakeholders regarding US efforts to: prevent, mitigate, or resolve violent conflict. And enhance the success of mediation and negotiation processes by ensuring the meaningful participation of women. The State Department is urged to work with international, regional, national, and local organizations to increase the participation of women in international peacekeeping operations. The State Department shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on: (1) training regarding the participation of women in conflict resolution, and (2) guidelines established for overseas personnel to engage in stakeholder consultations. The President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that evaluates the implementation of such strategy and the impact of US diplomatic efforts and foreign assistance programs to promote the participation of women.
State Court Interpreter Grant Program Act - Directs the Administrator of the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice to: (1) make grants to States to develop and implement programs to assist individuals with limited English proficiency to access and understand State court proceedings in which they are a party. And (2) allocate specified funds to establish a court interpreter technical assistance program to assist States receiving grants under this Act. Authorizes the use of grant awards by States to: (1) assess regional language demands, (2) develop a court interpreter program, (3) develop, institute, and administer language certification examinations, (4) recruit, train, and certify qualified court interpreters. And (5) pay for salaries, transportation, and technology necessary to implement the programs.
Protecting Employees and Retirees in Municipal Bankruptcies Act of 2014 - Amends federal bankruptcy law with respect to the requirement for a municipality to be a debtor under Chapter 9 that the municipality has negotiated in good faith with creditors and failed to obtain the agreement of those holding at least a majority in amount of the claims of each class that the municipality intends to impair under a plan. Requires that, with respect to creditors who are the municipality's employees or retirees, quot, good faithquot. Has the same meaning as it does in the National Labor Relations Act. Requires the municipality also to establish by clear and convincing evidence that it satisfies all eligibility criteria. Repeals the limitation placed upon on court authority to issue a stay pending an appeal of an order for relief. Amends the Judicial Code to confer upon the appropriate court of appeals jurisdiction of any appeal of a bankruptcy court determination that an entity is eligible to be a municipal debtor. Requires the appellate court to consider and determine such appeal on an expedited basis as a direct appeal, which shall be reviewed and heard de novo on the merits. Requires the court to confirm the bankruptcy plan of a municipality which modifies a collective bargaining agreement or a retiree benefit in any manner otherwise prohibited by nonbankruptcy law if the plan is agreed to by the authorized representative of either the employees covered by collective bargaining or the individuals receiving the retiree benefits. Designates the labor organization signatory to a collective bargaining agreement as the authorized representative of individuals receiving retiree benefits covered by that agreement. Sets forth procedures for court appointment of an authorized representative if a labor organization elects not to serve as one, or if the retired employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
Directs the Secretary of Defense to enter into an agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) under which current or former military personnel who are or become entitled to hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act are offered enrollment in a Federal employees health benefits plan in lieu of receiving care in military treatment facilities or through the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS). Allows such enrollment for any dependent of such individual if the dependent is entitled to health care under CHAMPUS and is or becomes entitled to hospital insurance benefits under Medicare. Outlines provisions concerning: (1) contributions for such coverage, (2) management of member participation. And (3) cancellation of coverage. Directs the Secretary and the OPM Director to report jointly to the Congress each year on the provision of such services to eligible persons during the preceding fiscal year. Requires the Secretary to offer such health benefits option no later than October 1, 1997.
Accelerating Kids' Access to Care Act This bill requires: (1)nbsp. State Medicaid programs to adopt a streamlined screening and enrollment process for eligible out-of-state providers and suppliers, and (2)nbsp, the Centers for Medicare amp, Medicaid Services tonbsp. Establish a process for providers and suppliers to enroll simultaneously in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Directs the Secretary to work with the Motor Carrier Safety Specialist Certification Board to establish and carry out a public education campaign to promote the use of safety performance information in the decision-making process for hiring motor carriers. Defines motor carrier safety specialist to mean an individual responsible for conducting regulatory compliance reviews and safety inspections of commercial motor carriers.
Cancer Drug Coverage Parity Act of 2011 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Public Health Service Act, and the Internal Revenue Code to require a group or individual health plan providing benefits for intravenously administered or injected anticancer medications to provide no less favorable coverage for prescribed, orally administered anticancer medication that is used to kill or slow the growth of cancerous cells and that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Applies such requirement to medication that is prescribed based on a finding by the treating physician that the medication is: (1) medically necessary for the purpose of killing or slowing the growth of cancerous cells in accordance with nationally accepted standards of medical practice. (2) clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, extent site, and duration. And (3) not primarily for the convenience of the patient, physician, or other health care provider. Permits such coverage to be subject to the same cost-sharing applicable to intravenously administered or injected anticancer medications under the plan. Prohibits a health plan from imposing an increase in out-of-pocket costs, or reclassifying benefits, with respect to anticancer medications. Requires a plan to provide notice to each participant and beneficiary regarding the coverage required under this Act. Prohibits a health plan from taking specified actions to avoid the requirements of this Act. Requires the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission to assess how closing the Medicare part D donut hole affects Medicare coverage for orally administered anticancer medications, with a particular focus on cost and accessibility.
Requires the MEP program to: (1) establish a pilot program to assist such manufacturers and businesses in integrating and utilizing electronic commerce technologies and business practices through a competitive grants program. And (2) consult with the Panel and utilize the Panel's reports. Title II: Enterprise Integration - Requires the Director to: (1) identify current critical enterprise integration standards and implementation activities for major manufacturing industries. (2) report to Congress on such matters and anticipated related NIST activities for that fiscal year. And (3) submit to Congress a plan for enterprise integration for each major manufacturing industry .
Developing Resources Immediately and Long-Term through Leases on Our Nation's Offshore Waters Act of 2009 or DRILL NOW Act of 2009 - Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) to revoke existing presidential authority to withdraw any unleased lands of the outer Continental Shelf (OCS) from disposition for exploration, development, or production of oil and gas, except as necessary for national security. Prohibits the President from making any such withdrawals. Authorizes a state governor to petition the Secretary of the Interior to issue leases for oil and natural gas exploration and extraction in any area within 50 miles of the coastline of the state and the lateral seaward boundaries of the state extended. Prohibits the Secretary from approving a petition for a drilling activity: (1) unless the state enacts a statute authorizing the issuance of leases. (2) if it would conflict with a military operation or national security. Or (3) in any area withdrawn for national security purposes. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to deposit 30 of qualified revenues into a separate Clean and Alternative Energy Fund in the Treasury, to be made available to the Secretary of Energy for grants for research and development of clean and alternative energy. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) deposit into the Clean and Alternative Energy Fund 30 of any funds that would be received by the United States as royalties under any existing federal OCS oil and gas lease of an area located within 50 miles of the coastal zone of the states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, or Alabama. And (2) pay 40 of such funds in proportional amounts to states with respect to which a lease tract is located in such an area.
Farm-to-Fuel Investment Act of 2007 - Amends the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to designate as bioenergy cropsheds areas that are physically located within a 50-mile radius, or some other economically-practicable distance, from an existing or planned biorefinery. States that each designated bioenergy cropshed shall include local conservation objectives, including water quality, wildlife habitat, soil quality, and air quality. Directs the Secretary, through the Natural Resources Conservation Service, to offer to enter into contracts with producers on a farm in a bioenergy cropshed to provide bioenergy crop transition assistance to encourage the producers to produce bioenergy crops.
Family Education Reimbursement Act of 2005 - Directs the Secretary of Education to establish a Family Education Reimbursement Account Program for families of students displaced by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita. Provides for reimbursing parents for costs of such students or preschool-age children attending schools or preschool programs, chosen by the parents, during the 20052006 school year. Requires the Secretary to make a contract with a nongovernmental entity to administer and operate the program.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on September 17, 2013. Organization of American States Revitalization and Reform Act of 2013 - States that it is US policy to: (1) promote democracy, the rule of law, and human rights in the Western Hemisphere. And (2) support the practices and principles expressed in the Charter of the Organization of American States, the American Declaration on the Rights and Duties of Man, the Inter-American Democratic Charter, and other fundamental instruments of democracy. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the Organization of American States (OAS) should be the primary multi-lateral diplomatic entity for regional dispute resolution and promotion of democratic governance. (2) the Summit of the Americas process should be formally and more effectively integrated into the work of the OAS, the Inter-American Development Bank, and other Members of the Joint Summit Working Group. (3) the OAS has historically accepted too many member state mandates creating unclear priorities and loss of institutional focus. And (4) it is in the interest of the United States and the OAS and its member states to move toward an assessed fee structure that assures financial sustainability and establishes, within five years, that no member state pays more than 50 of the organization's assessed fees. Directs the Secretary of State to submit to Congress a multiyear strategy that: (1) leads to such assessed fee structure, (2) identifies a path toward the adoption of necessary reforms that prioritize the core competencies of the OAS, (3) outlines a results-based budgeting process to prioritize current and future mandates and transparent hiring and promotion practices, and (4) reflects the inputs and coordination from other executive branch agencies. Directs the Secretary to: (1) carry out diplomatic engagement to build support for reforms and budgetary burden sharing among OAS member states and observers, and (2) promote donor coordination among OAS member states.
Fair, Accurate, Secure, and Timely Voting Act of 2012 or FAST Voting Act of 2012 - Directs the Attorney General to award grants, on a competitive basis, to enable states to: (1) invest in practices and technology designed to expedite voting at the polls, and (2) simplify voter registration. Requires the grant application to include a comprehensive and coherent plan for using funds to improve the applicant's performance on specified measures with respect to: (1) flexible registration opportunities, (2) early voting, (3) assistance to non-English speaking voters, and (4) other related matters. Requires each grantee to establish performance measures and targets, approved by the Attorney General, that track its progress in implementing its plan and expediting voting at the polls or simplifying voter registration, as applicable.
Cattle Industry Improvement Act of 1996 - Amends the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to advance the Fund for Rural America's initial funding date. Amends the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 to prohibit noncompetitive practices relating to the price or terms of sale of livestock or meat and meat by-products. Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to set forth domestic market reporting requirements for certain persons in the slaughter business. Defines captive supply. Amends the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 with regard to livestock and meat food products reporting requirements. Amends the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 to prohibit retaliation by packers against livestock producers. Provides damages for producers suffering such retaliation. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to establish an interagency working group to review whether Federal lending practices are contributing to market concentration in the livestock and dairy sectors. Directs the President to prepare a consolidation plan for the US food inspection system. Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act to require a labeling system for US-produced meat and meat food products. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to collect and publicize information on bulk cheese spot transactions.
Streamlined and Improved Methods at Polling Locations and Early Voting Act or SIMPLE Voting Act - Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to require each state to allow individuals to vote in a federal election on each day during the 15-day period ending two days before the election date in the same manner as voting is allowed on election day. Requires a state to ensure that each polling place which allows early voting in a federal election is located within reasonable walking distance of a stop on a public transportation route. Requires the Election Assistance Commission to issue standards for the administration of early voting in a federal election. Requires each state to provide a sufficient number of voting systems, poll workers, and other election resources at a polling place used in a federal election to ensure: (1) a fair and equitable waiting time for all voters in the state, and (2) that no individual will be required to wait longer than one hour to cast a ballot at the polling place. Requires each state to develop, and implement to the greatest extent practicable, a contingency plan under which it shall provide any polling place on a federal election day whose waiting times exceed one hour with additional poll workers, machines, ballots, and other equipment and supplies, including a polling place at which individuals may cast ballots before the election date.
Influenza Vaccine Emergency Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require influenza vaccine manufacturers to include a provision in any contract for the sale of the vaccine in interstate commerce expressing the policy that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has the authority to take title to necessary quantities of the vaccine if the Secretary declares a public health emergency by reason of an influenza vaccine shortage, and that the manufacturer will reimburse the purchaser for any vaccine not received. Requires the Secretary to pay the manufacturer or distributor the price the manufacturer or distributor would have received for any vaccine taken. Requires the Secretary to determine the extent of compliance with vaccine distribution guidelines and, before using the authority to take the vaccine, to publish notice that such compliance has not been an adequate response to the emergency. Allows the Secretary, in lieu of taking title to a vaccine, to order any vaccine manufacturer or distributor to honor its contracts with states or political subdivisions. Requires the Secretary to provide any influenza vaccine to states, political subdivisions, and such other public or private entities as appropriate as a response to the emergency. Allows the Secretary to make an emergency declaration if the delivery waiting time for states or political subdivisions to receive the vaccine constitutes a significant threat to children, adolescents, or adults.
Family Caregiver Support and Protection Act of 1996 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for coverage of respite care services, paid for on an hourly basis, under Medicare part B . Amends the Internal Revenue Code to treat qualified long-term care services as deductible medical care expenses.
Espionage Statutes Modernization Act of 2010 - Amends the federal criminal code to impose a fine andor prison term of up to five years on a covered individual who intentionally discloses, delivers, communicates, or transmits classified information, without authorization, knowing or having reason to know that such action is a violation of the terms of the classified information nondisclosure agreement entered into by such individual. Defines covered individual as an officer, employee, contractor, or consultant of a federal agency who agrees to be legally bound by the terms of a classified information nondisclosure agreement. Exempts from such prohibition disclosures made in accordance with a federal whistleblower protection statute or regulation. Directs the United States Sentencing Commission to review and, if appropriate, amend federal sentencing guidelines and policy statements applicable to a person convicted of an offense under this Act.
Kissimmee River Wild and Scenic River Study Act of 2017 This bill amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate the segment of the Kissimmee River in Florida from the southern shore of Lake Kissimmee to its confluence with Lake Okeechobee for potential addition to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The Department of the Interior shall complete a study of such river segment. The study shall not interfere with the Kissimmee River Restoration Project authorized under the Water Resources Development Act of 1992.
Amends title 36 of the United States Code to revise and expand the tables of contents for such title and its subtitles, revise the formatting of the chapter headings, and make technical corrections to subtitle and chapter headings.
Revises ESEA title II to authorize the Secretary of Education to make competitive five-year grants to local educational agencies (LEAs) to establish master teacher programs that provide: (1) funding assistance to teachers to become board certified by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, including the provision of the board certification fee. And (2) salary incentives to teachers who become board certified. Gives priority to LEAs that already provide such assistance and incentives. Requires the Secretary to establish peer review panels to review LEA applications and make recommendations on which ones should be approved. Requires LEA matching funds. Requires teachers receiving such assistance to: (1) enter and complete the board certification program. And (2) upon becoming board certified, teach in a public school system for at least five years. Authorizes appropriations. Revises ESEA title II to authorize the Secretary to: (1) enter into an agreement with the Center for Science, Mathematics, and Engineering of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences, under which the Center shall develop an advanced competency examination for elementary school and secondary school teachers of mathematics and science. And (2) make grants to LEAs to assist them in supplementing the salaries of teachers that pass such examination. Requires such LEAs to provide an additional $2,500 in salary for each grant year to teachers who have passed the examination and teach in schools served by the LEA. Authorizes appropriations. Revises HEA title II to authorize the Secretary to enter into contracts with appropriate entities to conduct information campaigns to broaden awareness of, and encourage mid-career professionals and other qualified individuals to consider, professional opportunities relating to elementary or secondary education. Requires announcements distributed as part of such information campaigns to publicize the availability of Federal assistance under HEA to obtain the necessary education, and to obtain certification or licensing, for such professional opportunities. Makes certain administrative, accountability, and evaluation provisions inapplicable to such contracts and campaigns. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the District of Columbia Code to make the Mayor of the District of Columbia the Commander-in-Chief of the National Guard of the District. Provides that, notwithstanding the authority of the Mayor of the District of Columbia as such Commander-in-Chief, the President shall retain control over units and members of the District of Columbia National Guard to conduct necessary and appropriate homeland defense activities.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to waive or modify requirements under the Higher Education Act of 1965 for student financial assistance programs, or other student or institutional eligibility provisions, as necessary to reflect changes in the financial condition of affected students and their families resulting from Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita . Cancels: (1) certain institutional repayments by institutions of higher education affected by a Gulf hurricane disaster. And (2) student loans for affected students during certain cancelled enrollment periods. Provides for: (1) temporary deferment of student loan repayment by affected individuals. And (2) waiver of consecutive service requirements for affected individuals under a program of student loan forgiveness for school teachers. Directs the Secretary to make special efforts to notify affected students who qualify for a means-tested federal benefit program of their potential eligibility for a maximum Pell Grant and to disseminate informational materials regarding such eligibility.
Requires a financial institution to comply within 48 hours with a Federal banking agency request for anti- money laundering information. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations governing maintenance of concentration accounts by financial institutions to ensure that such accounts are not used to prevent association of the identity of an individual customer with the movement of funds of which the customer is the direct or beneficial owner. Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to require each depository institution engaging in private banking to establish due diligence procedures for ongoing review of private banking customer accounts. Amends Federal criminal law to: (1) expand the designations of unlawful laundering of monetary instruments. (2) impose a fine and imprisonment for false statements to financial institutions concerning the identity of a customer. And (3) grant district courts jurisdiction over any foreign person that commits a financial transaction offense in the United States, including court issuance of a pretrial restraining order. Authorizes appropriations for the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury to implement an automated database to alert law enforcement officials if Currency Transaction Reports or Suspicious Activity Reports disclose patterns of illegal activity, including multiple Currency Transaction Reports or Suspicious Activity Reports which name the same individual within a prescribed period of time.
Requires the Secretary of Transportation to withhold specified graduated percentages of a state's apportionment of certain federal-aid highway program funds for FY2012-FY2015, and thereafter, if the state has not enacted or is not enforcing a law that prohibits, with specified exceptions, a person from using a wireless communications device to compose, read, or send an electronic message while operating a motor vehicle that is in motion or part of traffic.
Good Neighbor Social Security Office and Community Protection Act of 2012 - Directs the Commissioner of Social Security to develop and publish: (1) financial guidelines that may be used to identify Social Security Administration field offices for possible closure, and (2) standardized closure procedures that meet certain requirements. Requires such guidelines and procedures to provide that identification of an Administration field office for possible closure shall not require the Commissioner to begin closure procedures for it. Requires the Commissioner to: (1) develop an office closure and service continuity proposal for any office so identified which the Commissioner decides to close that contains, among other specified items, the estimated cost of the closure. (2) notify state and local chief executive offices and the public before closure. (3) require the Commissioner to hold at least one hearing to take public comments before making a final decision to close a field office. (5) issue a final closure decision only after review of such comments and evaluation of any alternatives to closing the office. And (6) continue to operate an office proposed for closure in good faith and with the assumption of continued service until the notice of the Commisioner's final closure decision is made.
Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program Act of 1994 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to carry out the Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program. Permits the Secretary, as part of the Program, to conduct an annual competition to: (1) solicit the submission by elementary and secondary school students of designs relating to migratory bird conservation. And (2) select winning designs for use for licensing and marketing. Authorizes the Secretary to license and market winning designs and stamps bearing such designs, to be known as Junior Duck Stamps. Makes licensing and marketing proceeds available solely for awards and scholarships to individuals who submit designs, awards to further education activities related to the conservation education goals of the Program, and expenses for licensing and marketing. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, to accept a certain private bequest for the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation for purposes of designing and constructing an environmental education center and refuge headquarters within the John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge.
Public Library Innovation Space Act This bill requires the National Museum and Library Services Board to carry out a program for making competitive grants to eligible partnerships to establish makerspaces at public libraries. A makerspace is a facility that is open to the public and provides individuals with access to: (1) tools, technology, and educational resources designed to enable such individuals to create physical goods, including prototypes. And (2) educational opportunities, including vocational training and assistance with early-stage business ventures. A partnership must contribute, for the activities for which the grant was awarded, nonfederal matching funds equal to the grant amount. Each eligible partnership that receives a grant may not use its grant funds, or the matching funds contributed by it, for construction activities at a public library that would provide extra square footage to house a makerspace.
Border Security Enforcement Act of 2010 - Authorizes the Governor of Arizona to: (1) order 3,000 members of the Arizona National Guard and other National Guard units to perform Active Guard and Reserve duty by immediately deploying along the Tucson Sector border and the Yuma Sector border. And (2) construct and maintain related surveillance platforms. Directs such deployment's continuation until the Governor of Arizona certifies that the federal government has achieved operational control of the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to increase, by January 1, 2015, the number of Border Patrol agents stationed along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders by 3,000. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) DHS to implement Operation Streamline along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders and reimburse state, local, and tribal law enforcement for related detention costs. And (2) the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to enhance law enforcement readiness along the US borders through Operation Stonegarden. Directs the Secretary to: (1) make specified enhancements to the Tucson Sector border. (2) analyze the feasibility of creating an additional Border Patrol sector in eastern Arizona and western New Mexico to interrupt drug trafficking operations. (3) construct a permanent checkpoint near Tubac, Arizona, and operate roving checkpoints along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders. And (4) establish a two-year grant program, to be administered by Arizona, to improve emergency communications along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders. Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to direct the Secretary to: (1) complete the required 700 mile southwest border fencing by December 31, 2011. And (2) construct double- and triple-layer fencing at appropriate locations along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders. Provides for additional mobile surveillance systems and unmanned aerial vehicles along the Tucson Sector and the Yuma Sector borders. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) purchases and upgrades of law enforcement communications equipment, (2) the state criminal alien assistance program. And (3) reimbursement of state, county, tribal, and municipal costs associated with the prosecution and pre-trial detention of federally initiated criminal cases declined by local US Attorneys' offices.
Presidential Historical Records Preservation Act of 2008 - Authorizes appropriations for the National Historical Publications and Records Commission for FY2010. Requires the Commission to make grants to eligible entities on a competitive basis to promote the historical preservation of, and public access to, historical records and documents relating to any President who does not have a presidential archival depository currently managed and maintained by the federal government pursuant to the Presidential Libraries Act of 1955. Defines eligible entities as specified tax-exempt organizations or state or local governments. Prohibits the use of grants for the maintenance, operating costs, or construction of any facility to house the historical records or documents. Prohibits the Commission from approving a grant application unless an entity establishes that it meets certain requirements, including that it: (1) ensures the preservation of, and access to, such historical works and collections of historical sources at no charge to the public. (2) has educational programs that make the use of such documents part of the entity's mission. And (3) has raised funds from nonfederal sources in support of the entity's efforts to promote such preservation and access.
Good Samaritan Charitable Physicians' Services Act of 2018 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax deduction for direct primary care physicians who provide charity care. The care must be provided without expectation of reimbursement and to an individual enrolled in Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). A direct primary care physician is a physician who provides primary care: (1) to individuals who have paid a periodic subscription fee, and (2) in exchange for a fee that is published on a publicly available website of the physician. The bill also amends the Public Health Service Act to specify that a physician is not liable under federal or state law for harm caused by an act or omission of the physician, or attending medical personnel supporting the physician, if the act or omission: (1) occurs in the course of furnishing charity care, and (2) was not grossly negligent. The bill preempts laws of a state or a political subdivision of the state that are inconsistent with this provision, unless the laws provide greater protection from liability for a defendant.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on October 31, 2013. Criminal Antitrust Anti-Retaliation Act of 2013 - Amends the Antitrust Criminal Penalty Enhancement and Reform Act of 2004 to prohibit an employer from discharging, demoting, suspending, harassing, or in any other manner discriminating against an employee, contractor, subcontractor, or agent of such employer who: (1) provided information to the employer or the federal government concerning a violation of antitrust law or of another criminal law committed in conjunction with a potential violation of antitrust law or in conjunction with an antitrust investigation by the Department of Justice (DOJ). Or (2) filed, testified, participated, or otherwise assisted in an investigation relating to such a violation. Excludes from such protection any individual who planned and initiated such a violation or an obstruction to the investigation of such a violation. Authorizes an individual who alleges discharge or other discrimination by an employer in violation of such prohibition to seek relief: (1) by filing a complaint with the Secretary of Labor. Or (2) if the Secretary has not issued a final decision within 180 days of such filing, by bringing an action at law or equity in the appropriate US district court. Entitles an individual who prevails in any such action to all relief necessary to make such individual whole, including reinstatement with the same status, back pay plus interest, and compensation for special damages sustained.
Preserving Medicare Advantage for all Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) temporarily prohibit the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid from terminating a Medicare Advantage (MA) plan contract solely because the MA plan fails to achieve a certain minimum quality rating, provided that the MA plan achieves a quality rating of at least two out of five stars. And (2) establish a demonstration project to provide funds to MA organizations for the development or expansion of programs or services to improve health care delivery and outcomes for enrollees of low socioeconomic status. To qualify for demonstration project funding, an MA plan must meet specified requirements with respect to quality ratings and the percentage of plan enrollees either eligible for a low-income subsidy or dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. MA organizations receiving funds under the demonstration project must use those funds to target improvement by the MA plan with respect to certain quality rating measures.
Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to expend up to $50 million for a fiscal year in Cooperative Threat Reduction funds to prevent proliferation of nuclear, chemical and other weapons outside the former Soviet Union, where allocation of such funds is currently limited to. Specifies that such expenditures may occur if determined that certain projects or activities will assist the United States in dealing with critical emerging proliferation threats or in achieving long-standing nonproliferation goals. Determines that such funds may go only to equipment, goods and services and cannot be spent directly on a project or activity. Directs the President to include in a given year's budget a request for funds distributed under the Act during the last fiscal year with a description of what projects would otherwise have been funded. Sets a time frame for the Secretary to inform Congress of what funds will be used for. Contains a provision for emergency distribution of funds to meet a critical emerging proliferation threat or a nonproliferation goal that requires such allocation. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress on the advisability of establishing one or more new cooperative threat reduction programs to account for projects or activities for which emergency distribution of funds were distributed under the Act or that were funded under the Act two years in a row.
Parent and Teacher Achievement Act of 2001 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to establish a program for State incentives for teacher testing and merit pay. Directs the Secretary of Education to make an award of such program funds to each State that: (1) administers a test to each elementary and secondary school teacher in the State, with respect to the subjects taught by the teacher, every three to five years. (2) has school teacher compensation system that is based on merit. And (3) requires school teachers to earn continuing education credits as part of a State recertification process. Allows States, regardless of any other Federal law, to use Federal education funds to: (1) test elementary or secondary school teachers in the subjects they teach. Or (2) establish a merit pay program for such teachers. Amends the Internal Revenue Act to provide certain tax credits for: (1) elementary and secondary school expenses, (2) contributions for the benefit of elementary and secondary schools. And (3) elementary and secondary school teachers who provide classroom materials. Allows elementary and secondary school teachers to take a tax deduction for certain professional development expenses.
Federal Credit Cost Reduction Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 to include administrative costs in the estimated long-term costs to the Government of direct loans and loan guarantees. Amends Federal law to require the President's annual budget to contain a separate listing of administrative costs for direct loans and loan guarantees on a cash accounting basis and an appendix of such costs by program, by agency, and for the Government. Establishes maximum permissible subsidy rates for each credit reform program account. Reduces such rates from 40 percent for FY 1995 to five percent by FY 1999.
Revises requirements governing a national inventory and voluntary reporting of greenhouse gases. Instructs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) implement a program of giving annual public recognition in the Federal Register to persons and entities demonstrating voluntarily achieved greenhouse gas reductions. And (2) conduct a review of possible changes to the guidelines to improve the accuracy and reliability of greenhouse gas emission reductions.
Biobased Energy Incentive Act of 2002 - Amends the Biomass Research and Development Act of 2000 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish: (1) a biobased energy incentive program of payments to eligible producers to promote the use of commodities to produce biobased energy products. And (2) a program to encourage wider availability of biobased energy products to consumers of gasoline and diesel fuel.
Directs the United States to: (1) take all necessary and appropriate steps to ensure the safety of the residents of Camp LibertyHurriya in Iraq. (2) provide all necessary and appropriate assistance to the United Nations (U. N.) High Commissioner for Refugees to process refugee applications by the residents of Camp LibertyHurriya and to secure their safe resettlement outside of Iraq. And (3) admit the residents of Camp LibertyHurriya as refugees in the United States and not delay or bar such resettlement because any such resident is or has been a member of, or supports or has supported, organizations or groups that were subject to the Secretary of State's decision of September 21, 2012. Directs the Secretary and the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to report to Congress on US efforts to guard the safety of Camp LibertyHurriya residents and secure their orderly resettlement.
Mandates allocation of such funds to each decontamination and decommissioning program of the gaseous diffusion plants in Portsmouth, Ohio, Paducah, Kentucky, and Oak Ridge, Tennessee, proportional to the total number of Separative Work Units processed at each site. Sets forth procedural guidelines for possible termination by the United States Enrichment Corporation of its lease with the Department of Energy (DOE). Instructs the Secretary to transmit a decontamination and decommissioning program for the Portsmouth, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky, gaseous diffusion plants after the date a decision has been made to close all or part of one of the gaseous diffusion plants. Directs DOE to establish a Portsmouth and Paducah Operations Office to manage environmental restoration, nuclear energy, and uranium enrichment program activities. Mandates that the President's Budget request for FY2001 and for each fiscal year thereafter include funding for such Office as a separate line item from the Oak Ridge Operations Office budget. Sets forth closure requirements to minimize social and economic impacts relating to partial or total closures of the Portsmouth, Ohio, and Paducah, Kentucky, gaseous diffusion plants.
Debt Collection Act Amendments of 1993 - Amends Federal law to require the head of an executive or legislative agency to: (1) contract with a collection service to recover indebtedness owed to the United States, (2) collect such indebtedness from Federal employees in installment deductions. (3) disclose certain information to a consumer reporting agency when trying to collect a claim. And (4) collect such a claim by administrative offset. Requires the head of a Federal agency to report promptly to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) any debt that has been paid in full. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the IRS to disclose address information in accordance with any law granting a Federal claim against a taxpayer. Directs the Comptroller General to report to the Congress after annual audits of each Federal agency on: (1) the amount of debt owed to the agency, (2) the amount that is delinquent. And (3) action taken by the agency to recover such debt. Repeals the termination date of the pilot debt collection project of the Department of Justice. Requires the Attorney General to include in the annual report to the Congress on activities to recover indebtedness the total cost of the pilot project and the total amount of debt recovered under it. Requires that recovered funds be used to reduce the Federal deficit. Requires a percentage of recovered funds to be used by the agency in collecting indebtedness. Prohibits the head of a Federal agency from making a loan until the loan applicant has been prescreened to determine creditworthiness. Requires the IRS to disclose address information to a Federal agency for use in collecting a claim. Prohibits the head of a Federal agency from making a loan to a loan applicant who owes a delinquent debt to the Federal Government, including the IRS. Allows the use of administrative charges by the Secretary of the Treasury for improving credit management techniques.
Provide Access and Retain Continuity Act or the PARC Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to enter into agreements with, and provide reimbursement to, states to conduct activities determined to have a direct economic impact on tourism, mining, timber, or general transportation in the state that are otherwise not being conducted by the federal government during a partial shutdown of the federal government due to a lapse in appropriations. Requires the Secretary to approve or deny a petition for such an agreement not later than 90 days after receiving it and deems such petition approved if the Secretary does not act on it within the 90-day period.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants for school construction to local educational agencies that have taken steps to improve teacher quality and student achievement.
Direct Check for Education Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make direct awards to local educational agencies (LEAs) to support programs or activities, that the LEA deems appropriate, for students in kindergarten through grade 12. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to use funds under this Act to continue to make payments to eligible recipients pursuant to, and for the duration of, any multiyear award made prior to enactment of this Act. Repeals the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. Repeals certain provisions of the Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1999 which vested in the National Assessment Governing Board exclusive authority for developing voluntary national tests pursuant to a specified contract. Repeals the following programs under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965: (1) the Technology for Education program, including national programs, State and local programs for school technology resources, Star Schools, Ready-to-Learn Television, telecommunications demonstration project for mathematics, elementary mathematics and science equipment, and elementary and secondary school library media resources, (2) the State programs component of Innovative Education Program Strategies. And (3) the Fund for the Improvement of Education. Repeals the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994. Directs the Secretary to determine a per-child amount to be awarded to each LEA. Authorizes the Secretary to conduct audits of LEA expenditures under this Act and to enforce certain sanctions and penalties if such funds are not used in accordance with this Act.
Securing Protections for the Injured from Limitations on Liability Act - Amends the Death on the High Seas Act to permit the personal representative of a decedent to bring a civil action in admiralty or law against the person or vessel responsible for the decedent's death when the death was caused by wrongful act, neglect, or default occurring on the high seas beyond three nautical miles from the shore of the United States. Limits the right to bring such an action to the decedent's survivors only . Allows recovery in such an action for fair compensation for nonpecuniary loss , plus a fair compensation for the decedent's pain and suffering. Defines nonpecuniary loss as loss of care, comfort, and companionship. Amends the Jones Act to allow recovery for the loss of the care, comfort, and companionship of a seaman who died in the course of employment. Removes restrictions on the bringing of actions under US maritime law by workers who are not US citizens or permanent residents against a mineral or energy company for personal injury or death occurring in the territorial waters or continental shelf of a foreign country. Repeals specified general limitations on a shipowner's liability for personal injury or death on seagoing vessels. Amends the bankruptcy code to prohibit a trustee in bankruptcy from selling or leasing, except in the ordinary course of business, significant property of the estate of a debtor liable for a claim for wrongful death, personal injury, or property damage arising from an incident under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 unless: (1) more than one-half of the creditors, holding at least two-thirds the dollar aggregate amount of the claims not paid by the debtor, consent to such sale or lease. Or (2) the court finds, after notice and a hearing, that all such claims will be paid because sufficient property will remain in the estate or the debtor's anticipated future income will be sufficient.
Health Insurance Affordability and Equity Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited credit for qualified health insurance costs paid for by an individual during a period when the individual was not covered by qualified health insurance and was not eligible to participate in any employer provided group health plan. Provides for the deduction of the qualified health insurance costs of employees and the self-employed.
Veterans Emergency Treatment Act or the VET Act This bill requires that a veteran enrolled in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care program who requests a medical examination or treatment at an emergency department of a VA medical facility be provided with a medical screening examination to determine whether an emergency medical condition exists and, if so, stabilizing medical treatment or a transfer to another VA or non-VA medical facility. If a non-stabilized emergency medical condition exists, the VA hospital may not transfer the veteran unless: (1) the veteran, after being made aware of the risks, makes a written transfer request. Or (2) a physician certifies that the medical benefits of a transfer outweigh the risks. The VA may not take adverse action against a VA employee because the employee refuses to authorize the transfer of an enrolled veteran with a non-stabilized emergency medical condition or because the employee reports a violation of a requirement of this bill. A VA or non-VA medical facility may not delay provision of an appropriate medical screening examination or further medical examination and treatment required in order to inquire about the payment method or insurance status of an enrolled veteran.
Speak Up to Protect Every Abused Kid Act - Amends the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA) to specify in the definition of child abuse or neglect any deliberate act, on the part of an individual other than a parent or caretaker, that results in death, serious physical or emotional harm, or sexual abuse or exploitation, or that presents an imminent risk of serious harm to a child. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to make grants to eligible entities to carry out educational campaigns and provide training regarding state laws for mandatory reporting of incidents of child abuse or neglect. Requires the state plan under a grant for child abuse or neglect prevention and treatment programs to contain an assurance in the form of a certification by the state governor that the state has in effect and is enforcing a state law, or has in effect and is operating a statewide program, relating to child abuse and neglect that includes provisions or procedures for an individual to report suspected or known incidents incidents of child abuse or neglect to a state child protective services agencies or to law enforcement agencies, which shall include a state law for mandatory reporting of such agencies, to either type of agency, by any adult. Requires the annual state application for a grant for programs relating to investigation and prosecution of child abuse and neglect cases to contain an assurance that the state will train adults who work with children in a professional or volunteer capacity to report suspected and known incidents of child abuse or neglect. Requires the state multidisciplinary task force on children's justice to evaluate the state's efforts to train such adults to report such incidents. Requires a state to adopt state task force recommendations in the category of experimental, model, and demonstration programs for testing innovative approaches and techniques that may improve reporting to the state child protective services agencies or to law enforcement agencies of and response to suspected and known incidents of child abuse or neglect by adults. Requires a state, to be eligible to receive any form of financial assistance, to include in its plan or application an assurance that the state has in effect a state law for mandatory reporting of child abuse or neglect. Directs the Secretary of HHS to collect information on and otherwise study the efforts of states relating to state laws for mandatory reporting of incidents of child abuse or neglect in order to assess the implementation of CAPTA. Requires an application for a community-based grant to contain an assurance that the state has in effect a state law for mandatory reporting of child abuse or neglect.
Bramwell National Historical Park Act of 1993 - Establishes the Bramwell National Historical Park, West Virginia, to preserve, restore, and interpret the unique historical, cultural, and architectural values of the town. Establishes the Bramwell National Historical Park Advisory Committee. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 to revise loan guarantee escrow fund provisions. Establishes a Treasury fund to hold related collateral, and provides for Secretary-obligor reserve funds. Exempts certain foreign-origin dry bulk and breakbulk cargo vessels that have transferred to United States flag registry from the three-year restriction on carrying US- procured, furnished, or financially supported cargo Extends war risk insurance authority. Reduces specified United States Maritime Administration reporting requirements. Amends Federal law to state that ownership the vessel Jeremiah O'Brien shall belong to the National Liberty Ship Memorial, Inc. rather than the United States Maritime Administration.
Americans Want to Work Act - Amends the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 with respect to the state-established individual emergency unemployment compensation account (EUCA). Requires a further additional Tier-5 period for deposits to an individual's EUCA if, at the time the amount added to such individual's account under the Act is exhausted or at any time thereafter, the individual's state is in an extended benefit period. Prescribes a formula for making such Tier-5 credits. Increases the figures in the basic EUC formula : (1) from 50 to 80 of the total amount of regular compensation payable to the individual during the benefit year. And (2) from 13 to 20 times the individual's average weekly benefit amount for the benefit year. Prescribes a formula for determining if a state is in an extended benefit period. Allows the Tier-5 period augmentation to be applied to the individual's EUCA only once. Authorizes a state to pay extended compensation to an otherwise eligible individual before any further additional emergency unemployment compensation (EUC), if such individual claimed extended compensation for at least one week of unemployment after the exhaustion of additional EUC. Authorizes a state to elect to pay Tier-4 EUC before payment of Tier-5 EUC until the state determines that such Tier-5 EUC may be paid without undue delay. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to extend through December 31, 2011, the exemption of an employer from payment of employment taxes or railroad retirement taxes for individuals who begin employment after August 4, 2010. Excludes from account for Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax purposes any employment by the Bureau of the Census as a temporary enumerator for the 2010 decennial census. Amends the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act to allow an increase in the general business tax credit for the retention of a qualified long-term unemployed worker who: (1) is a retained worker. (2) certifies by signed affidavit that he or she has not been employed during a specified 693-day period or has exhausted all unemployment insurance benefits under federal or state law in less than 693 days. And (3) begins employment with a qualified employer after the enactment of this Act and before January 1, 2012.
Building Security Act of 2003 - Requires the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology to establish a research and development program to provide for improved building and fire codes, standards, and practices. Requires the Director to: (1) work with industry, trade associations, and professional societies to research construction, material, and equipment standards and practices to reduce the impact of extreme threats to the safety of buildings, their occupants, and emergency responders and to study the best methods for ensuring full implementation of and compliance with such standards and practices. And (2) oversee a program for dissemination and implementation of such practices and standards. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a Private Security Industry Task Force to: (1) examine the limitations in training, screening, standard-setting, retention, and oversight practice in the private security industry. And (2) develop structural guidelines and standards of quality for the industry and determine the best way to help States implement them.
Market Based Manufacturing Incentives Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for the purchase of new products certified as assembled in the United States and consisting of at least 60 of components assembled or otherwise arising in the United States. Establishes the 21st Century American Manufacturing Commission to conduct research to designate products eligible for the tax credit allowed by this Act.
Prohibits a label on a product stating that the product was made in America unless: (1) the product is registered with the Department of Commerce as required by this Act. (2) at least 60 percent of the product was manufactured in the United States. And (3) final assembly took place in this country. Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to require products to provide additional information to consumers regarding the foreign content of imported articles. Requires any product manufactured in this country and which is assembled with a part from a foreign country to state on its label: (1) the country of origin of such part. And (2) the proportion of the cost of such product which is accounted for by such part. Sets forth penalties for violating provisions of this Act.
Student Credit Card Transparency Act of 2009 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to require creditors to report annually to the Federal Reserve Board on the terms and conditions of all business, marketing, and promotional agreements and college affinity card agreements with institutions of higher education, or related alumni organizations or foundations, with respect to college student credit cards issued to students at such schools. Directs the Comptroller General to review such reports and creditor marketing practices periodically and report to Congress on the affect college affinity card agreements and college student credit card agreements have on credit card debt.
Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act This bill amends the Department of Education Organization Act to require the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Education (ED) to include in an annual report to ED, the President, and Congress specifiednbsp, information regarding federal civil rights violations bynbsp, educational institutions.
Veterans Sexual Assault Prevention and Health Care Enhancement Act - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to develop and implement a centralized and comprehensive policy on reporting and tracking sexual assaults and other safety incidents at each medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), including: (1) risk-assessment tools, (2) mandatory security training, (3) physical security precautions. (4) criteria and guidance for employees communicating and reporting incidents to specified supervisory personnel, VA law enforcement officials, and the Office of Inspector General, (5) an oversight system within the Veterans Health Administration. (6) procedures for VA law enforcement officials investigating, tracking, and closing reported incidents. And (7) clinical guidance for treating sexual assaults reported over 72 hours after assault. Requires the Secretary to submit to the congressional veterans committees: (1) an interim report on the policy's effectiveness on improving the safety and security of such facilities, and (2) annual reports on such incidents and policy implementation. Requires VA payments to state nursing homes for care provided to veterans to be based on a methodology which reimburses such home for care provided under contract. Includes entities eligible to enter into such contracts as authorized VA nursing home, adult day health care, or other extended care providers. Includes the goal of maximizing the individual's independence within an individualized plan for the rehabilitation of veterans with traumatic brain injury (TBI). Includes within plan objectives the sustaining of improvement in cognitive, behavioral, and vocational functioning. Includes within the VA definition of rehabilitative services treatment and services to sustain and prevent loss of functional gains, as well as any other services or supports that may contribute to maximizing an individual's independence. Includes rehabilitation services within: (1) comprehensive programs for long-term rehabilitation of veterans with TBI, and (2) cooperative agreements for the use of non-VA facilities for neurorehabilitation and recovery programs for such veterans. Prohibits the Secretary from disallowing the use of service dogs in any VA facility or property, or in any facility or property that receives VA funding. Directs the Secretary to implement a three-year pilot program to assess the effectiveness of using dog training activities as a component of integrated post-deployment mental health and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) rehabilitation programs at VA medical centers to positively affect veterans with such symptoms and to produce specially trained dogs that may become service dogs for veterans with disabilities. Requires the pilot program to be carried out at one VA medical center selected by the Secretary other than the VA health care system in Palo Alto, California. Makes veteran participation voluntary. Requires the Secretary to: (1) collect program data to determine its effectiveness, as well as the potential to expand the program to additional VA medical centers. And (2) report annually to Congress for the duration of the pilot program. Eliminates a required annual report on staffing for registered nurses and certain other health-care personnel at VA facilities.
Department of Defense Office of the Victim Advocate Act of 2004 - Establishes an Office of the Victim Advocate within the Office of the Secretary of Defense to assist victims of sexual misconduct and interpersonal violence occurring among members of the Armed Forces or between members of the Armed Forces and family members and partners. Requires the Director of the Office to carry out specified coordination, evaluation and review, policy, and education and training functions, and to submit to the Secretary an annual report assessing the current state of affairs within military departments relative to interpersonal violence and sexual misconduct. Requires the Secretary to transmit the Director's report to Congress with additional comments.
Centennial Monetary Commission Act of 2013 - Establishes the Centennial Monetary Commission to: (1) examine how US monetary policy since the creation of the Federal Reserve Board in 1913 has affected the performance of the US economy in terms of output, employment, prices, and financial stability over time. (2) evaluate various operational regimes under which the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee may conduct monetary policy in terms achieving the maximum sustainable level of output and employment and price stability over the long term. And (3) recommend a course for US monetary policy going forward.
Nellis Dunes National Off-Hughway Vehicle Recreation Area Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey specified federal land to Clark County, Nevada, for use for: (1) a centralized off-road vehicle recreation park, and (2) a designated area and facilities to discourage unauthorized use of off-highway vehicles in environmentally sensitive areas. Allows the use of federal land conveyed to Clark County for the incidental purpose of generating renewable energy and solar energy for the Clark County Off Highway Vehicle Recreation Park, a certain shooting park, and the County. Designates: (1) the Economic Support Area (ESA), and (2) the Nellis Dunes as the Nellis Dunes National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area. Requires proceeds from the ESA to be used to develop and operate the Recreation Area and the park. Requires the Clark County Board of Commissioners, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), and Nellis Air Force Base to enter into an interlocal agreement for the federal land and the Recreation Area to: (1) enhance safe off-highway recreation use, and (2) ensure that development of the federal land is consistent with the long-term mission requirements of Nellis Air Force Base.
Medicare Common Access Card Act of 2017 This bill requires the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS) to establish a three-year pilot program, in at least threenbsp, geographic areas,nbsp. To demonstrate the feasibility of using smart-card technology to authenticate the identity of a Medicare beneficiary at points of service. The CMS shall select supplier and provider types that will be required to participate in the pilot program as a condition of Medicare payment, butnbsp. Must exempt from participation a supplier or provider that: (1) does not have access to card-reader technology, (2) does not have sufficient internet access, or (3) has a low volume of Medicare claims. The CMS shall select a private contractor to implement and operate the pilot program. The CMS must submit specified reports to Congress on program design, implementation, and performance. For purposes of conducting the pilot program, the CMS shallnbsp, provide for thenbsp. Transfer of $150 million from the Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund to the CMS Program Management Account.
Building Efforts for Wellness and Encouraging Longer Lives Act or the BE WELL Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish standards for programs of health promotion and disease prevention , including a system of rewards and reimbursements for voluntarily adopting healthy behaviors, including participation in fitness and smoking cessation programs. Applies such standards to group plans under the Public Health Service Act and federal employee health benefit plans. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a 10-state demonstration project to apply wellness program standards to state health insurance plans.
Amends the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 to modify notice requirements regarding releases of extremely hazardous substances (or releases of other substances subject to Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to require notification by the owner or operator of the facility at which the chemical is produced, used, or stored to emergency planning officials within one hour of having knowledge that a release has occurred. Permits an exception to the one hour requirement in the event of unusual or extenuating circumstances. Allows such notice to be given to a State agency authorized by State law to receive the notification and requires such an agency to then notify the State emergency response commission within two hours. Amends CERCLA to modify notice requirements regarding releases of hazardous substances to require notification by the person in charge of the vessel or facility within one hour of having knowledge of the release . Allows such notice to be given to the State emergency response commission or a State agency authorized by State law to receive the notification. Requires the National Response Center to convey the notification to all appropriate government agencies within two hours and provides a similar time period for notification of the Center or both the Center and the commission if first received by the emergency response commission or the authorized State agency, respectively. Allows an exception to the one hour requirement similar to the one provided by the right-to-know amendments of this Act. Revises penalties for failure to notify to conform with this Act's amendments.
Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area Act - Establishes the Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Designates the Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area, Inc. as the Areas' management entity, which shall: (1) submit to the Secretary of the Interior for approval a management plan which includes policies, strategies, and recommendations for conservation, funding, management, development, and interpretation of the Area. And (2) assist local governments, regional planning organizations, and nonprofit organizations in implementing the plan. Prohibits the entity from using Federal funds received under this Act to acquire real property. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical and financial assistance to the Area and enter into cooperative agreements with the management entity to develop and implement the plan.
This bill specifies that the amount deposited in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Reserve Fund for FY2018 may not exceed $48 million. TITLE I TRID IMPROVEMENT The bill amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures of 1974 to modify disclosure requirementsnbsp. Applicable to mortgage loan transactions. Specifically, the disclosed charges for any title insurance premium shall be equal to the amount charged for each individual title insurance policy, subject to any discounts as required by either state regulation or the title company rate filings. TITLE II PROTECTION OF SOURCE CODE The bill amends the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 to specify that the SEC may not compel a person to produce a source code or similar intellectual property without first issuing a subpoena. TITLE III FOSTERING INNOVATION The bill amends the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with respect to auditor-attestation requirements for public companies. These requirements shall not apply with respect to any audit report prepared for an issuer that: ceased to be an emerging growth company on the last day of its fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of its first sale of common equity securities, had average annual gross revenues of less than $50 million as of its most recently completed fiscal year, and is not a large accelerated filer. This exemption shall expire at the earliest of: (1) the last day of the fiscal year 10 years after the issuer's first sale of common equity securities, (2) the end of the fiscal year in which the issuer's average annual gross revenues exceed $50 million, or (3) when the issuer becomes a large accelerated filer. TITLE IV NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE REGULATORY PARITY The bill amends the Securities Act of 1933 to exempt from state registration securities qualified for national trading by the SEC and authorized to be listed on a national securities exchange. Currently, securities listed on exchanges specified by statute or rule are exempt. TITLE V ELIMINATING BARRIERS TO JOBS FOR LOAN ORIGINATORS The bill amends the S. A. F. E. Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 to temporarily allow loan originators that meet specified requirements to continue to originate loans after moving: (1) from one state to another, or (2) from a depository institution to a non-depository institution. The bill revises the S. A. F. E. Mortgage Licensing Act's civil liability immunity provisions.
National Laboratory Technology Maturation Act of 2014 - Requires the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to establish the National Laboratory technology maturation program to make grants of up to $5 million per fiscal year to National Laboratories to increase the successful transfer of technologies licensed from National Laboratories to small businesses by providing a link between an innovative process or technology and a practical application with potential to be successful in commercial markets. Requires grant recipients to use the funds to provide vouchers of up to $250,000 each to small businesses that hold a technology license from a National Laboratory to pay the cost of providing assistance from its scientists and engineers to assist in the development of the licensed technology and further develop related products and services until they are market-ready or sufficiently developed to attract private investment. Requires a National Laboratory that awards a voucher to carry out such a project to: (1) establish a procedure to monitor interim progress of the project toward commercialization milestones, and (2) discontinue providing such funding or assistance if it determines that a project is not making adequate progress toward such milestones under the procedure.
Mary Jo Lawyer Spano Mesothelioma Patient Registry Act of 2015 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry to develop a patient registry to collect data on mesothelioma. The Agency shall use the registry to: enhance and expand infrastructure and activities for tracking the epidemiology of mesothelioma patients, collect, consolidate, and report on health information on mesothelioma patients. Describe the incidence and prevalence of mesothelioma in the United States, facilitate research on mesothelioma, examine factors that may be associated with mesothelioma, outline key demographic factors associated with mesothelioma. And make information available to the public to facilitate and enhance research on, and the prevention and treatment of, mesothelioma. The Agency: (1) shall provide for the collection and storage of information on the incidence and prevalence of mesothelioma in the United States and information concerning demographics and other information associated with mesothelioma, such as geographic location and family history, risk factors, and diagnosis and progression markers. (2) may provide for the collection and storage of information relevant to analysis on mesothelioma, such as information concerning the epidemiology, natural history, and prevention of the disease, the detection, management, and treatment approaches for the disease, and the development of outcomes measures. And (3) shall make registry information available to federal agencies and the public.
Small Business Hardship Relief Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exempt from the employer mandate to provide minimum essential health care coverage for its employees a small business nbsp. Experiencing a hardship. Defines hardship to include situations in which a small business has missed two or more consecutivenbsp. Loan payments, is a debtor in a Chapter 11 (reorganization) bankruptcy proceeding,nbsp. Has received a notice of termination of utility services or a notice of eviction, has experienced a fire, flood, or other disaster, or hasnbsp. Experienced another hardships as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. Directs the Secretary to conduct a study to identify additional hardships appropriate for granting an hardship exemption. Prohibits the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) fromnbsp, taking into accountnbsp, the applicability of a hardship exemption to a small businessnbsp. As the sole factor in determining whether to audit such business.
State Fiscal Relief Act of 2004 - Amends the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 to extend the temporary freeze of the Federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) under title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) for certain States . Amends the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 to increase the FMAP: (1) by 2.95 percentage points for the last two calendar quarters of FY 2003 and the first three calendar quarters of FY 2004. And (2) by 1.26 percentage points for the last calendar quarter of FY 2004 and each calendar quarter of FY 2005. Increases by 5.9 percent the ceiling on Medicaid payments to specified territories for the last two calendar quarters of FY 2003 and the first three calendar quarters of FY 2004. Increases such ceiling by 2.52 percent for the last calendar quarter of FY 2004 and each calendar quarter of FY 2005. Amends SSA title XIX, with respect to the transitional increased Federal matching rate for increased administrative costs, to require a specified minimum increase for administrative expenditures that would not be incurred but for enactment of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. Sets $1.2 billion as the cap on the total amount of additional Federal funds expended as a result of this Act with respect to such administrative expenditures between October 1, 2004, and the later of either: (1) April 1, 2006. Or (2) the end of the first fiscal year quarter that begins on or after the date on which benefits are first provided under the voluntary prescription drug benefit program under SSA title XVIII (Medicare) part D.
Expresses the sense of Congress that the abuse of the provisions of bankruptcy law by certain coal industry employers is damaging to the economic health of the United States, as well as to the employees who are directly harmed by such legal abuses. Amends Federal bankruptcy law to declare that sale by the bankruptcy trustee of a facility owned or operated by a coal industry employer involved in coal production, processing, or transportation is subject to the labor rights of the current and former employees of the debtor. States that if employees at such facility are represented by a labor organization, such organization is conclusively presumed to enjoy majority support for a period of one year from the date of such sale, or such longer period as required by applicable nonbankruptcy law. Sets forth criteria for approval of an application to reject a collective bargaining agreement by a coal industry employer relating to a covered facility. States that obligations arising under the terms of a collective bargaining agreement before the entry of bankruptcy relief are secured by a lien on all of the debtor's assets. Declares that all members of a debtor's controlled group of corporations are jointly and severally liable for damages arising as the result of the court-approved application for the modification of retiree benefits owed by a coal industry employer relating to a covered facility. Declares all such claims entitled to priority status.
Includes hazardous duty pay and diving duty special pay received for at least 60 months as qualifying pay in the computation of military retired pay. Directs the Comptroller General to study the possibility of tax credits or small business loan incentives for businesses that employ National Guard and reserve personnel. Directs the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on an assessment of the feasibility and desirability of expanding the Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) program of each of the military departments, the Civil Air Patrol, the Naval Sea Cadet Corps, and the Young Marines of the Marine Corps League.
Requires the Register of Copyrights to ensure that records of deposits, registrations, recordations, and other related actions taken under copyright provisions are maintained and that indexes of such records are prepared. Revises Copyright Office fee provisions. Authorizes the Register to adjust such fees.
Innovation Competitiveness Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to designate a Technology Transfer Director within the Technology Administration to perform oversight and policy and development for technology transfer activities at the Department of Commerce. Requires the Director to: (1) coordinate activities of the Interagency Working Group on Technolgy Transfer, (2) coordinate with certain technology partnership ombudsmans. And (3) establish procedures for coordinating the Commerce Department's technology transfer outreach activities between appropriate Federal agencies, including the National Technical Information Service and the Federal Laboratory Consortium for Technology Transfer. Directs the Secretary to establish a research program within the Technology Administration that: (1) involves consultation with the various units of the Commerce Department, (2) builds upon ongoing private sector efforts. And (3) involves consortia. Instructs the Director to work with industry, trade associations, professional societies, and others to: (1) develop improved technology transfer research tools and practices. And (2) conduct a specified study. Requires the Director to oversee a dissemination and technical assistance program for the immediate dissemination and implementation of the practices, standards, and codes developed by the Technology Administration. Directs the Secretary to designate a small business advocate within the Commerce Department to: (1) increase the participation of small business concerns. And (2) establish guidelines for a small business program under this Act. Directs the Secretary to establish a State and Industry Task Force to highlight areas where the Federal Government can help States to provide a complementary research and development environment.
High-End Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 - Instructs the Secretary of Energy to implement a research and development program to advance high-end computing systems, including establishment of a coordinated set of facilities for investigators to develop ultrascale scientific computing capability for: (1) scientific research and development using high-end computing systems. And (2) development of potential advancements in high-end computing system architecture and software. Requires such program to include establishment of at least one High-End Software Development Center.
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Funding Act of 1999 - Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 and 2001 for US voluntary contributions to the United Nations Population Fund. Withholds from the US voluntary contribution to the UNFPA amounts allocated by the UNFPA for the country program in China, unless the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the UNFPA country program in China: (1) focuses on improving the delivery of voluntary family planning information and services. (2) is in conformity with the human rights principles affirmed at the International Conference on Population and Development with the support of 180 nations including the United States. (3) is implemented only in counties of China where all quotas and targets for the recruitment of program participants have been abolished and the use of coercive measures has been eliminated. (4) is carried out in consultation with and under the oversight and approval of the UNFPA executive board, including the US representative. (5) is subject to regular, independent monitoring to ensure compliance with the principles of informed consent and voluntary participation. And (6) suspends operations in project counties found to be in violation of program guidelines.
Medicaid Fraud Recovery Act of 2008 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to provide for: (1) use of local Medicaid fraud investigative units. And (2) enhanced Medicaid funding for anti-fraud activities by such local or state Medicaid fraud control units.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on May 4, 2017. Improving Support for Missing and Exploited Children Act of 2017 This bill amends the Missing Children's Assistance Act to revise the findings to, among other things, specify that the growing numbers of children who are victims of child sexual exploitation include victims of child sex trafficking and sextortion. The bill revises the definition of quot, missing childquot. To mean an individual under 18 years of age whose whereabouts are unknown to the individual's parent . It specifies that a parent includes a legal guardian or an individual who functions as a parent . It revises existing functions and duties of the National Center on Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) and adds new requirements for the NCMEC, including to: provide training and technical assistance to help families, law enforcement agencies, and other entities respond to missing foster children and identify, locate, and recover child sex trafficking victims. Provide forensic and direct on-site technical assistance, including facial reconstruction of skeletal remains, to help families, law enforcement agencies, and other entities identify deceased children. Provide training, technical assistance, and information to help law enforcement agencies and nongovernmental organizations identify and locate non-compliant sex offenders. And develop and disseminate programs and information on sexting and sextortion to families, law enforcement agencies, and other entities. The NCMEC must make publicly available the annual report on missing children and the incidence of attempted child abductions.
Child Nutrition Protection Act of 1994 - Amends the National School Lunch Act to direct the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) to provide State and local agencies with training and other assistance to prevent fraud and anticompetitive activities in the school lunch, school breakfast, special milk, summer food service, WIC, and child and adult care food programs. Directs the Secretary to bar a company for at least three years from program participation upon conviction for anticompetitive or specified related activities.
Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal Land Conveyance Act of 2006 - Deauthorizes the Blunt Reservoir feature of the Oahe Irrigation Project authorized as part of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program. Allows preferential leaseholders of parcels of the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal an option to purchase such parcels from the Secretary of the Interior or the Commission of Schools and Public Lands of South Dakota for five years after this Act's enactment and for the fair market value for agricultural purposes less 25, exclusive of the value of improvements made while the land was federally owned. Directs the Secretary to offer to convey to the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish, and Parks all preferential lease parcels not purchased by the leaseholder, and the nonpreferential leased parcels and unleased parcels of the Blunt Reservoir and Pierre Canal, to be used for mitigating the wildlife habitat that was lost as a result of the development of the Pick-Sloan project. Authorizes the Commission, with the Department's concurrence, to allow a person to exchange other land in South Dakota for a nonpreferential lease parcel or unleased parcel at Blunt Reservoir or Pierre Canal. Requires priority to be granted to: (1) exchanges with current lessees for nonpreferential lease parcels. And (2) exchanges with adjoining and adjacent landowners for unleased parcels and nonpreferential lease parcels not exchanged by current lessees. Conditions the exchange of land of the Pierre Canal Feature on US reservation of a perpetual easement to the land to allow it to design, construct, operate, maintain, repair, and replace a pipeline or other water conveyance structure over, under, across, or through the Pierre Canal feature. Shields the United States from liability for damages arising out of any act, omission, or occurrence relating to parcels conveyed under this Act, except for acts of negligence committed before the date of conveyance. Directs the Secretary: (1) to continue, until the conveyance date, to lease each parcel to be conveyed according to the terms and conditions applicable on the date of enactment of this Act. And (2) to provide South Dakota with a full legal description of all parcels that may be conveyed. Directs the Secretary to transfer all archeological and cultural resource items collected from the Blunt Reservoir Feature and Pierre Canal Feature to the South Dakota State Historical Society. Authorizes appropriations to reimburse the Secretary, the Commission, and the Department for expenses incurred in implementing this Act, not to exceed 10 of the cost of each transaction.
Consumer Review Freedom Act of 2015 This bill makes a provision of a form contract void from the inception if it: (1) prohibits or restricts an individual who is a party to such a contract from engaging in written, oral, or pictorial reviews, or other similar performance assessments or analyses of, including by electronic means, the goods, services, or conduct of a person that is also a party to the contract. (2) imposes penalties or fees against individuals who engage in such communications. Or (3) transfers or requires the individual to transfer intellectual property rights in review or feedback content in any otherwise lawful communications about such person or the goods or services provided by such person. A quot, form contractquot. Is a contract with standardized terms: (1) used by a person in the course of selling or leasing the person's goods or services, and (2) imposed on an individual without a meaningful opportunity to negotiate the standardized terms. The definition excludes an employer-employee or independent contractor contract. The standards under which provisions of a form contract are considered void under this Act shall not be construed to affect: legal duties of confidentiality, civil actions for defamation, libel, or slander. Or a party's right to establish terms and conditions for the creation of photographs or video of such party's property when those photographs or video are created by an employee or independent contractor of a commercial entity and are solely intended to be used for commercial purposes by that entity. Such standards also shall not be construed to affect any party's right to remove or refuse to display publicly on an Internet website or webpage owned, operated, or controlled by such party content that: (1) contains the personal information or likeness of another person or is libelous, harassing, abusive, obscene, vulgar, sexually explicit, inappropriate with respect to race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, or other intrinsic characteristic. (2) is unrelated to the goods or services offered by or available at such party's website. Or (3) is clearly false or misleading. A provision shall not be considered void under this Act to the extent that it prohibits disclosure or submission of, or reserves the right of a person or business that hosts online consumer reviews or comments to remove, certain: (1) trade secrets or commercial or financial information, (2) personnel and medical files, (3) law enforcement records. (4) content that is unlawful or that a party has a right to remove or refuse to display. Or (5) computer viruses or other potentially damaging computer code, processes, applications, or files. A person is prohibited from offering form contracts containing a provision that is considered void under this Act. Enforcement authority is provided to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and states. The FTC must provide businesses with nonbinding best practices for compliance.
Medicare Home Infusion Site of Care Act of 2014 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to authorize Medicare coverage of home infusion therapy and home infusion drugs. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to implement the Medicare home infusion therapy benefit in a manner that ensures that: (1) Medicare beneficiaries have timely and appropriate access to infusion therapy in their homes, and (2) there is rapid and seamless coordination between drug coverage under Medicare part D and home infusion therapy services coverage under Medicare part B (SSI) to avoid the filing of duplicative or otherwise improper claims.
Congestion Relief Act of 2005 - Amends the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) to provide that 80 percent of specified funds apportioned to a State shall be obligated in urbanized areas of the State with populations of over 200,000 and in other areas of the State, in proportion to their relative share of the State's population. Modifies: (1) the allocation formula under the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program. And (2) the Minimum Guarantee regarding programmatic distribution of funds. Directs that the funds apportioned to a State for a fiscal year for the National Highway System (NHS) be allocated between urbanized areas with a population of over 200,000 in the State and other areas in the State as follows: (1) 75 percent in the ratio that the total lane miles on the NHS in such urbanized areas in the State bears to the total lane miles on the NHS in all areas in the State. And (2) 25 percent in the ratio that the total vehicle miles traveled on the NHS in such urbanized areas in the State bears to the total vehicle miles traveled on the NHS in all areas in the State. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to: (1) establish a metropolitan congestion relief program. And (2) establish and implement an operational improvement program. Increases the percentage set aside for metropolitan planning.
True Reciprocity Investment Act of 2017 This bill amends the Defense Production Act of 1950 to direct the Office of the United States Trade Representative to submit an annual report assessing the extent to which foreign governments allow investments by US persons in their countries that are similar to investments in the United States made by entities organized in such foreign countries. The report shall include, with respect to each major trading partner of the United States: (1) a description of the laws, policies, and practices of the country with respect to foreign investment. And (2) an assessment of the transparency of the process for making such laws, policies, and practices. The report shall also include the determination of the office whether each major trading partner: (1) has high barriers to investment by US persons. (2) has recently taken measures that constitute barriers to investment by US persons or has indicated an intention to take such measures. Or (3) has investment laws, policies, and practices that should be monitored. If the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States recommends that the President not suspend or prohibit a transaction made by a party that is subject to the jurisdiction of a high barrier country, it shall provide an explanation of the reasons for its recommendation.
Dam Safety and Security Act of 2002 - Amends the National Dam Safety Program Act to direct the Interagency Committee on Dam Safety to encourage the establishment and maintenance of effective Federal programs, policies, and guidelines intended to enhance dam safety. Requires the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to prepare a strategic plan to establish: (1) goals, priorities, and target dates to improve dam safety. And (2) cooperation and coordination with, and assistance to, interested State governmental entities. Requires the Director to: (1) provide assistance to assist States in establishing, maintaining, and improving dam safety programs. And (2) establish the National Dam Safety Review Board to monitor State implementation , to monitor the safety of dams in the United States, and to advise the Director on national dam safety policy. Provides for participation of representatives from Federal or State agencies or dam safety experts as nonvoting members in Board meetings. Requires technical and archival research to support: (1) development and maintenance of information resources systems needed to support managing dam safety. And (2) initiatives to guide the formulation of effective public policy and advance improvements in dam safety engineering, security, and management. Requires the Director, at the request of any State that has or intends to develop a State dam safety program, to provide training for State dam safety staff and inspectors. Increases and extends through FY 2006 the authorization of appropriations for the national dam safety program, national dam research, and dam safety training and staffing requirements.
Strengthening and Focusing Enforcement to Deter Organized Stealing and Enhance Safety Act of 2012 or the SAFE DOSES Act - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit, in or using any means or facility of interstate or foreign commerce: (1) embezzling, stealing, obtaining by fraud or deception, or knowingly and unlawfully taking, carrying away, or concealing a medical product that has not yet been made available for retail purchase by a consumer. (2) knowingly and falsely making, altering, forging, or counterfeiting the labeling or documentation of such a product. (3) knowingly possessing, transporting, or trafficking in a product involved in such a violation. (4) buying or otherwise obtaining, or selling or distributing, with intent to defraud, such a product that has expired or been stolen. Or (5) attempting or conspiring to commit such a violation. Makes such a violation an aggravated offense if: (1) the defendant is employed by, or is an agent of, an organization in the supply chain for the product. Or (2) the violation involves the use of violence, force, a threat of violence or force, or the use of a deadly weapon, results in serious bodily injury or death, or is subsequent to a prior conviction for an offense under this Act. Prescribes criminal and civil penalties for violations, including a civil penalty of up to the greater of 3 times the economic loss attributable to the violation or $1 million. Provides for civil forfeiture for any property which constitutes or is derived from proceeds traceable to such a violation. Requires the penalties under this Act to apply for the following offenses involving a pre-retail medical product: (1) interstate and foreign travel or transportation in aid of racketeering enterprises. (2) engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity. (3) breaking into or entering carrier facilities with intent to commit larceny. And (4) the transportation, sale, or receipt of stolen property. Directs the Attorney General to give increased priority to efforts to investigate and prosecute offenses involving pre-retail medical products. Extends provisions authorizing wiretapping and requiring victim restitution to offenses relating to theft of a pre-retail medical product. Directs the US Sentencing Commission to review and, if appropriate, amend the sentencing guidelines and policy statements applicable to offenses related to pre-retail medical product theft or robberies and burglaries involving controlled substances to reflect congressional intent that penalties are sufficient to deter and punish such offenses and to appropriately account for actual harm to the public.
Scotchman Peaks Wilderness Act of 2016 This bill designates approximately 13,961 acres of National Forest System land in Idaho, to be known as the Scotchman Peaks Wilderness, as wilderness and a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System. The wilderness area is withdrawn from specified public land, mining, mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) may carry out management activities to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and habitats within the wilderness area if they would: promote healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed populations that would enhance wilderness values. And accomplish the purpose of the management activity with the minimum impact necessary. USDA may take measures within the wilderness area necessary for the control of fire, insects, and disease. Nothing in this bill creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the wilderness area. USDA shall ensure that Indian tribes have access to the wilderness area for: traditional and cultural purposes, and the exercise of any right reserved by treaty.
Earmark Reform and Federal Spending Transparency and Accountability Act of 2011 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit, between January 1 of an odd-numbered year and December 31 of the next even-numbered year, an earmark beneficiary from making contributions aggregating more than $5,000 to any requesting candidate with respect to such earmark beneficiary. Defines requesting candidate as any Senator or Member who requested a congressionally directed spending item, limited tax benefit, or limited tariff benefit (earmark) which benefits the earmark beneficiary. Prohibits the employees of the personal staff of a Member of Congress, except for one designee, from attending a political fund raiser held on the Member's behalf. Requires the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives each to post on the respective public website a link to the earmark database maintained by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Requires the head of each federal department and agency to post on the respective public website a link to a searchable database that lists each contract, grant, cooperative agreement, and other expenditure made by the department or agency. Amends Rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate to require a Senator requesting an earmark in any legislation or an accompanying joint statement of managers to certify in the required written statement to the chairman and ranking member of the committee of jurisdiction that the earmark recipient is qualified to handle the project. Requires the Comptroller General, in an annual report to Congress, to use the OMB database to: (1) randomly select a percentage of each of the programs and projects funded through earmarks in the preceding fiscal year, (2) audit each selected one. And (3) provide a detailed accounting of how, if it does so, the earmark contributes to an already existing program or project.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Commemorative Coins Title II: Circulating Coins Marian Anderson Centennial Commemorative Coin Act - Title I: Commemorative Coins - Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) mint and issue one-dollar and half-dollar coins in commemoration of the centennial of the birth of Marian Anderson. And (2) allocate sales surcharges to the Smithsonian Institution, the Public Broadcasting Fund, and the National Museum of American History for the support of the National Numismatic Collection. Title II: Circulating Coins - Amends Federal currency law to provide that at the Secretary's discretion, half-dollar coins minted after specified dates may bear the same design as the commemorative coins minted under this Act.
Requires each HMO that is licensed by a State to provide health care coverage to make biannual payments to the Guaranty Fund in accordance with an assessment schedule to be established by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Permits deferrals or exemptions if an HMO demonstrates that payment of the assessment would endanger its ability to fulfill contractual obligations or place it in an unsound financial condition. Prescribes a civil penalty for failure to pay.
Puerto Rico Economic Activity Credit Improvement Act of 1999 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify the requirements for corporations to be eligible for the Puerto Rico economic activity credit. Requires that, in determining the credit amount, the credit provisions be applied separately to each substantial line of business of the corporation. Removes provisions limiting, in taxable years beginning after 2001, the aggregate taxable income taken into account in determining the amount of the credit. Amends provisions relating to the Puerto Rico and possession tax credit to modify, with respect to possessions other than Puerto Rico, corporate eligibility requirements. Requires that, in determining the credit amount, the credit provisions be applied separately to each substantial line of business of the corporation. Modifies additional restricted credit requirements. Sets forth credit rules applicable to Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Worker Ownership, Readiness and Knowledge Act or the WORK Act - Directs the Secretary of Labor to establish within the Department of Labor an Office of Employee Ownership and Participation to promote employee ownership and employee participation in business decisionmaking. Requires the Office Director, with federal grants and acting as an information clearinghouse, to: (1) support existing programs in the states designed to promote employee ownership and employee participation in business decisionmaking. And (2) promote the formation of new such programs. Directs the Secretary to establish a program, administered by the Director, which is designed to foster employee ownership and employee participation in business decisionmaking throughout the United States.
Great Lakes National Program Act - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to extend the deadline for the publication of the final Lakewide Management Plan for Lake Michigan and to establish publication deadlines for a final plan for Lake Superior and proposed plans for Lake Erie, Lake Huron, and Lake Ontario. Directs the Great Lakes National Program Office to: (1) conduct five demonstration projects of promising technologies to remedy contaminated sediments at appropriate sites. (2) conduct chemical, physical, and biological assessments of contaminated sediments at each area of concern and make recommendations on technologies to remedy contaminated sediments. And (3) report findings and recommendations to the Congress. Extends the authorization of appropriations for the Great Lakes water quality program through FY 2000.
Sunset Wasteful Executive Expenditures and Programs Act of 2013 - Requires the Comptroller General (GAO): (1) each year, beginning in 2014, to review three executive departments to identify agencies and programs that perform similar or related functions and that no longer serve a public need. (2) to review every executive department at least once every five years. And (3) each year, beginning on February 1, 2015, to report to Congress on the results of the reviews of executive departments carried out during the preceding year with recommendations for abolishing agencies and programs that perform similar or related functions and no longer serve a public need. Abolishes by December 31 of each year, beginning with 2015, the three executive departments reviewed by the Comptroller General during the preceding year. Requires the President to direct procedures for the winding down of the operations of each abolished department. Allows Congress to authorize the continued existence of an executive department scheduled for abolishment. Sets forth the process for congressional consideration of the Comptroller General's report, including an expedited procedure for consideration of resulting legislation to be known as a wasteful expenditures bill.
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Oversight and Resource Enhancement Act of 2006 - Amends the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA) to: (1) authorize the appointment of additional judges to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (Court). And (2) require FISA judges to act on applications for emergency electronic surveillance within 24 hours. Authorizes the hiring of additional personnel in the Department of Justice (DOJ), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), National Security Agency (NSA), and the Court to process surveillance applications. Requires the Directors of the FBI and NSA to develop regulations for conducting and seeking approval for emergency electronic surveillance, preparing and submitting applications for such surveillance, and training personnel. Extends from 72 to 168 hours the period during which the Attorney General may authorize emergency electronic surveillance pending judicial authorization of such surveillance. Permits electronic surveillance without a court order of communications between individuals outside the United States for the purpose of collecting foreign intelligence information even if such communications pass through, or the surveillance device is located within, the United States. Requires a court order for the contents of any wire or radio communication sent by a person inside the United States to a person outside the United States. Authorizes enhanced congressional oversight of electronic surveillance activities under FISA. Requires Supreme Court review of any final decision of a US court of appeals concerning the legality of the Terrorist Surveillance Program.
Amends the Freedom of Information Act to require each Federal agency to make available for public inspection and copying: (1) copies of all records, regardless of form or format, which have become or are likely to become the subject of subsequent requests. (2) a general index of such records, which shall be made available electronically by December 31, 1999. And (3) within one year after November 1, 1996, by computer telecommunications or other electronic means, those records created on or after November 1, 1996. Revises reporting requirements concerning such provisions.
District of Columbia and United States Territories Circulating Quarter Dollar Program Act - Amends Federal law to authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue during 2009 redesigned quarter dollars commemorating the District of Columbia and the US territories.
Dairy Farmer Viability Act - Establishes the Dairy Farmer Viability Commission which shall study and report on matters affecting the viability of dairy farming.
Farm Relief Act of 2008 - Amends the US Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007 to appropriate funds for: (1) emergency financial assistance to producers on a farm that incurred qualifying natural disaster-caused quantity or quality losses for the 2008 crop. (2) certain processors in Florida for natural disaster-caused crop and other losses in 2008. (3) certain first processors of sugarcane that operate in a county affected by a natural disaster or obtain sugarcane from a county affected by a natural disaster in Louisiana. And (4) certain sugarcane growers in Texas for natural disaster-caused demurrage, storage, and transportation costs in 2008. Provides specified Commodity Credit Corporation funds for grants to state departments of agriculture for assistance to eligible catfish producers to help offset natural disaster-caused feed costs or economic losses in 2008.
Mentor Schools Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award grants to not more than 100 eligible local educational agencies for the planning and operation of one or more mentor schools. Prohibits the Secretary from awarding more than one such grant to support a particular mentor school. Requires each local educational agency receiving such a grant to establish a mentor school advisory board. Encourages each local educational agency operating such a mentor school to employ teachers with alternative teaching certificates, including participants in the Troops to Teachers Program. Sets forth requirements for: (1) applications, (2) selection of grantees. And (3) non-Federal evaluating agencies' evaluations and reports . Authorizes appropriations.
Ensuring Quality in the Unemployment Insurance Program (EQUIP) Act - Amends title III of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require state unemployment compensation (UC) laws to require, as a condition of UC eligibility for a benefit year, an applicant, before receiving any UC, to: (1) complete a substance abuse risk assessment. And (2) test negative for controlled substances within one week after the results of such assessment if the state determines that the applicant is a high-risk. Prescribes retesting requirements and UC payment suspensions for applicants who test positive. Amends SSA title XVIII (Medicare) and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to provide funding for such substance abuse testing out of current funds appropriated for the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) and, after application of those funds, for the Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan (CO-OP) program.
Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act This bill prohibits US assistance to Israel from being used to support the military detention, interrogation, or ill-treatment of Palestinian children in violation of international humanitarian law or the use against Palestinian children of: (1) torture, inhumane, or degrading treatment, (2) physical violence or psychological abuse, (3) incommunicado or administrative detention, (4) solitary confinement, (5) denial of parental or legal access during interrogations. Or (6) force or coercion to obtain a confession. The Department of State shall annually submit to Congress: (1) a certification that none of the funds obligated or expended in the previous fiscal year for assistance to Israel have been used to support any of such activities. Or (2) if the State Department cannot make such certification, a report describing each activity and the amount of funds used by Israel in violation of this bill. The State Department shall include in each annual report on the barring of development assistance to a country that engages in human rights violations a description of the nature and extent of detention, interrogation, or ill-treatment of Palestinian children by Israeli military forces or police in violation of international humanitarian law.
Save Our Seas Act of 2017 or the SOS Act of 2017 This bill amends the Marine Debris Act to revise the Marine Debris Program to require the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to work with: (1) other agencies to address both land- and sea-based sources of marine debris, and (2) the Department of State and other agencies to promote international action to reduce the incidence of marine debris. The bill also revises the program by allowing NOAA to make sums available for assisting in the cleanup and response required by severe marine debris events. NOAA must prioritize assistance for activities that respond to a severe marine debris event in: (1) a rural or remote community, or (2) a habitat of national concern. The bill urges the President to: (1) work with foreign countries that contribute the most to the global marine debris problem in order to find a solution to the problem. (2) study issues related to marine debris, including the economic impacts of marine debris. And (3) encourage the Office of the US Trade Representative to consider the impact of marine debris in relevant future trade agreements. The Interagency Marine Debris Coordinating Committee must expand to include a senior official from the State Department or from the Department of the Interior. This bill reauthorizes for FY2018-FY2022: (1) the Marine Debris Program, (2) an information clearinghouse on marine debris, and (3) enforcement of laws about discarded marine debris from ships.
Inspector General Act Amendments of 2001 - Amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to prohibit the receipt of any cash award or cash bonus by an Inspector General. Provides for an external review of the Office of Inspector General (Office) for specified Federal agencies at least every three years by the General Accounting Office or a private entity. Changes the semiannual Office activities report to an annual report. Revises required elements of such reports. Sets forth new semiannual Office activities reporting requirements. Changes the rate of pay of specified Inspectors General from Level IV to Level III of the Executive Schedule. Requires the Comptroller General to: (1) develop criteria for determining whether the consolidation of Federal Inspector General offices would be cost-efficient and in the public interest. (2) study the offices using such criteria to determine whether any should be consolidated. And (3) report to Congress recommendations for legislative action based on the study.
Los Angeles Homeless Veterans Leasing Act of 2015 This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out certain leases at the VA's West Los Angeles Campus in Los Angeles, California, for: (1) supportive housing. (2) health, education, family support, vocational training, and other services that principally benefit veterans and their families. And (3) a lease of real property to a California institution that has had a long-term medical affiliation with the VA at such Campus.
Individual Social Security Retirement Account Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the social security taxes on employees, employers, and the self-employed for 1995 and thereafter. Amends title II of the Social Security Act to require employers to have in effect a social security payroll deduction plan for employees. Requires such plan to provide for employers to deduct the prescribed social security employee contribution for transfer, together with the prescribed social security employer contribution, to an individual social security retirement account of the employee. Provides for self-employed individuals to pay into such accounts the prescribed social security self-employment contribution. Sets forth penalties for failure to establish and maintain such accounts. Requires amounts deducted from employee wages to be shown on wage receipts for employees. Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to exempt social security payroll deduction plans from provisions governing employee benefit plans. Provides for the tax treatment of individual social security retirement accounts in a manner similar to individual retirement accounts.
Medicare Commission Act of 1995 - Establishes the National Commission on the Long-Term Solvency of the Medicare Program to provide analyses of and recommendations with respect to the current and long-term financial condition of the Medicare trust funds for a report to the President, the Congress, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Oversight Workforce Improvement Act of 2014 - Exempts from requirements relating to the authority of federal agencies to collect information for investigations: (1) information collected during any evaluation by the Federal Accountability and Spending Transparency Board. And (2) information collected during any audit, investigation, evaluation, or other review conducted by the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency or any Office of the Inspector General, including any office of Special Inspector General. Exempts from document disclosure requirements of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) information relating to the information security program or practices of a federal agency if disclosure could reasonably be expected to lead to, or result in, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of such information program or the information such program controls, processes, stores, or transmits. Amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to: (1) establish classification and pay standards for the Inspectors General of each federal agency. (2) set forth procedures for considering allegations of wrongdoing against the Special Counsel and Deputy Special Counsel. And (3) include within the membership of the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency the Inspectors General of the Intelligence Community and the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) .
Nazi Benefits Termination Act of 2001 - Denies Federal public benefits to individuals who have been participants in Nazi persecution. Authorizes the Attorney General, if an individual who has applied for or is receiving a Federal public benefit may have been such a participant, to provide an opportunity for a hearing on the record with respect to the matter. Requires an immigration judge who finds that the respondent has been a participant in Nazi persecution to: (1) promptly issue an order declaring the respondent to be ineligible for any Federal public benefit and prohibiting any person from providing such a benefit to the respondent. And (2) transmit a copy of the order to any governmental entity or person known to be providing such a benefit. Authorizes the Attorney General to review any finding or conclusion made or order issued and to complete such review within 30 days . Provides for the appeal of findings or orders by an aggrieved party to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Multilingual Education and Technological Advancement Act of 2001 - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make competitive grants to local educational agencies (LEAs) to provide financial assistance to elementary and secondary schools for obtaining: (1) computer software for multilingual education, with preference given to schools with a majority of students from poor families or a high concentration of students with low levels of English proficiency. And (2) computers, with grant awards mandatory for schools where a majority of students meet poverty criteria or where there are a specified low number of computers for students. Authorizes the Secretary, jointly with the Secretary of Labor, to make matching grants for: (1) information technology training programs for former participants in such programs who have not received information technology certification, minorities, women, older individuals, veterans, Native Americans, and dislocated workers. And (2) multilingual education programs. Requires a partnership, to be eligible for such a grant, to consist of: (1) an institution of higher education. And (2) a private organization, such as a certified commercial information technology training provider or an information technology trade or professional association. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to LEAs to assist them in awarding bonuses to teachers who achieve information technology certification. Authorizes the Secretary to make competitive grants to institutions of higher education to provide scholarships to students who: (1) are preparing to enter the teaching profession. And (2) meet criteria established by the Secretary that requires them to obtain both technological and multilingual education.
Tackling Excessive Standardized Testing Act of 2015 or the TEST Act of 2015 This bill amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to lower the frequency with which students must take the tests used to determine whether they are making adequate yearly progress (AYP) toward state academic achievement standards in mathematics and reading or language arts. Under current law, students must take such tests in both subjects in each of grades 3 through 8. The bill maintains testing in grades 3 through 8 but authorizes a public school tonbsp, limit testing: (1)nbsp, in mathematics, to even-numberednbsp. Grades or, if the school is at the 15th percentile or above for mathematics in the state or its students are making appropriate progress toward state mathematics achievement standards,nbsp, to grades 4 and 8 only, and (2)nbsp. In reading or language arts, to odd-numbered grades or, if the school is at the 15th percentile or above for reading or language arts or its students are making appropriate progress toward state reading or language arts achievement standards,nbsp. To grades 3 and 7 only. Limited English proficient students who are in their first 12 months of enrollment in a public school are excluded from the determination as to whether students are making AYP toward state academic achievement standards.
Reliable Farm Safety Net Act - Amends the Federal Crop Insurance Act to establish permanent authority for the Secretary of Agriculture to provide disaster relief to qualifying agricultural producers who incur crop or livestock losses as a result of damaging weather or related condition in federally declared disaster areas.
Directs the Secretary of State to provide briefings to Congress at least once a year regarding: (1) discussions conducted between any executive branch agency and the government of Taiwan. And (2) potential defense article or defense service transfers to the government of Taiwan.
Wireless Microphone Users Interference Protection Act of 2013 - Directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to expand eligibility for specified licenses authorizing the operation of low power auxiliary stations to the owners of, and operators of events and performances at: amusement parks, arenas, convention centers, educational facilities, houses of worship, lodging facilities, museums, outdoor venues, recording studios, and theaters. Requires the FCC to: (1) expand scope of service and permissible transmission regulations to include the use of wireless microphones in rehearsals and live or recorded events and performances by such licensees, and (2) establish two safe haven channels for exclusive use by wireless microphone users. Directs the FCC to authorize owners and operators of wireless microphones to have access to TV bands databases to protect wireless microphone operations from interference. Permits restaurants, as well as the persons and entities made eligible for licenses by this Act, to be registered in such databases as sites where wireless microphone operations shall be protected from interference.
Workplace Integrity Act - Amends Federal law to: (1) limit the amount of official time which may be used by Federal employees in connection with a grievance procedure. And (2) prohibit the use of official time by Federal employees in connection with the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement. Directs the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to submit to the President and each House of the Congress, before March 1 of each calendar year, a specified report on the use of official time under this Act. Requires that agencies shall submit to OPM such data as OPM may by regulation require in connection with any such report.
Date Certain Tax Code Replacement Act - Prohibits the imposition of any tax by the Internal Revenue Code: (1) for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2005. And (2) in the case of any tax not imposed on the basis of a taxable year, on any taxable event or for any period after December 31, 2005. Excepts the: (1) tax on self-employment income, (2) Federal Insurance Contributions Act. And (3) Railroad Retirement Tax Act . Establishes the National Commission on Tax Reform and Simplification to review: (1) the present structure and provisions of the Code. (2) whether the tax systems of other countries could provide more efficient and fair methods of funding government revenue requirements. (3) whether the income tax should be replaced with a tax imposed in a different manner or on a different base. And (4) whether the Code can be simplified, absent wholesale restructuring or replacement. Requires a Commission report to Congress on review results, with recommendations for Code reform and simplification. Terminates the Commission 90 days after such report. Authorizes appropriations . Declares that any new Federal tax system should be approved by Congress in its final form before July 4, 2005, and, if not, Congress should be required to vote to reauthorize the Code.
Revises state agency authority with respect to operation of high occupancy vehicle (HOV) facilities. Replaces the exception from general HOV restrictions for low emission and energy-efficient vehicles with one for alternative fuel vehicles and new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles. Authorizes a state agency with jurisdiction over the operation of an HOV facility to permit alternative fuel vehicles and new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles to use HOV lane highways. Requires states to establish procedures for enforcing restrictions on such vehicles operating on HOV lane highways. Requires a state agency which collects tolls on HOV facilities for their use by vehicles not otherwise exempted from HOV restrictions to use excess toll revenues for certain highway projects, giving priority consideration to those for developing alternatives to single occupancy vehicle travel and projects for improving highway safety. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Transportation and states should provide additional incentives for the purchase and use of advanced technology and dedicated alternative fuel vehicles.
Strong Forests Grow Strong Communities Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to publish in the Federal Register and make available on the Forest Service website, the annual volume requirement for each unit of the National Forest System (NFS). Defines the quot, annual volume requirementquot. For an NFS unit as a volume of national forest materials that is at least 50 of the unit's sustained yield. Prohibits the Secretary from reducing the annual volume requirement for a unit without the consent of a new Act of Congress. Requires the Secretary to manage the sale of national forest materials in each NFS unit in the manner necessary so that the annual volume requirement for that unit is met each calendar year. Directs the Secretary, if a sale of national forest materials may affect the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species, to issue a determination explaining the view that the proposed sale is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of that species. Authorizes the state in which an NFS unit is located, if the Secretary fails to meet the annual volume requirement for that unit for five calendar years, whether consecutively or over a longer than five-year period, to request a cooperative agreement with the Secretary for purposes of managing the unit. Permits a state that undertakes the management of an NFS unit to conduct the management directly, through an agreement with a political subdivision of the state, or through contracts with third parties. Limits a state's request to only those NFS lands of a unit located in the state if the unit covers more than one state. Declares that state environmental, wildlife, and land management laws shall supercede federal environmental, wildlife, and management laws on an NSF unit managed by a state under a cooperative agreement in place pursuant to this Act.
Flat Alternative Individual Return Tax Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an individual to pay, instead of the tax otherwise due under the Code, a tax equal to 20 percent of FAIR taxable income. Defines such income as gross income minus specified deductions over the FAIR standard deduction. Defines such deduction.
Family and Medical Leave Enhancement Act of 2009 - Amends the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) to cover employees at worksites that employ fewer than 50 employees, but not fewer than 25 employees. Continues to exempt from FMLA coverage employees at worksites that employ fewer than 25 employees , if the total number of employees employed by that employer within 75 miles of that worksite is fewer than 25 . Allows an employee covered by FMLA to take up to 4 hours during any 30-day period, and up to 24 hours during any 12-month period, of parental involvement leave to participate in or attend activities that are sponsored by a school or community organization. And (2) relate to a program of the school or organization that is attended by the employee's child or grandchild. Permits the use of such parental involvement leave to meet routine family medical care needs, including: (1) such employee's medical and dental appointments, or their spouse, child, or grandchild. And (2) the care needs of their related elderly individuals, including visits to nursing homes and group homes. Allows an employee to elect, or an employer to require, substitution of any of the paid or family leave or paid medical or sick leave of the employee for any leave provided under this Act. Declares that nothing in this Act shall require an employer to provide paid sick leave or paid medical leave in situations where such employer would not normally provide any such paid leave. Imposes on the employee requesting leave certain notification requirements. Allows an employer to require certification supporting such requests. Applies the parental involvement and family wellness leave allowance to federal employees.
Border Smog Reduction Act of 1998 - Amends the Clean Air Act to prohibit noncommercial motor vehicles registered in a foreign country and operated by US citizens, aliens who are permanent residents, or holders of employment or educational visas from entering a Serious ozone nonattainment area from a foreign country bordering the United States and contiguous to such area more than twice in a single calendar-month period if State law has requirements for the inspection and maintenance of such vehicles in such an area. Makes such prohibition inapplicable to operators who present documentation at the border entry point establishing the vehicle's compliance with such requirements. Authorizes civil penalties to be imposed for violation of such prohibition. Makes such prohibition inapplicable in States which elect to be exempt. Makes such prohibition inapplicable in a State and authorizes the President to implement an alternative approach if: (1) a State Governor submits a description of an alternative approach to facilitate compliance by foreign-registered vehicles with inspection and maintenance requirements that are related to air pollutant emissions, that are in effect under the implementation plan in the area, and that apply to vehicles of the same types and model years as the foreign-registered vehicles. And (2) the President approves such approach. Requires the Comptroller General to study and report to specified congressional committees on a comparison of the potential impact of this Act on air quality in ozone nonattainment areas with the impact in those areas of the increase in vehicles engaged in commerce operating in the United States and registered in, or operated from, Mexico, as a result of the implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Amends the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 to postpone until: (1) 2007 the implementation of recommendations for military base closures and realignments currently scheduled for 2005. And (2) corresponding dates two years later certain dates for reviews, recommendations, and reports related to to such closures and realignments.
Firefighter Cancer Registry Act of 2016 This bill requires the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to develop and maintain a voluntary patient registry to monitor, collect, and make available epidemiological information related to cancer incidence and trends among firefighters. The CDC should seek to include specified information in the registry, including the number and type of fire incidents attended by an individual. To collect information for the registry, the CDC may incorporate questions into existing public health surveys, questionnaires, and other databases. The CDC must: (1) encourage the inclusion in the registry of data on minority, female, and volunteer firefighters. And (2) seek feedback on the registry from nonfederal experts. The CDC must develop an approval process for making registry data available for research without a fee if findings or publications derived from the research are made public or available to stakeholders.
Makes US nationals eligible for advanced training in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps and for financial assistance as members of the Corps, provided such individuals enter into an agreement requiring: (1) residency within a State before commencement of the advanced training or financial assistance. Or (2) application for naturalization within 60 days after either meeting the naturalization requirements or being accepted into the program of advanced training or financial assistance.
Metro Accountability and Investment Act This bill amends the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008 to authorize additional funding to the Department of Transportation (DOT) for grants for capital and preventive maintenance projects for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) in increments over 10 fiscal years beginning in FY2020 or until expended, subject to specified limitations. DOT may not provide such grants until it certifies that the Board of Directors of WMATA has passed a resolution, and is making progress implementing such resolution, that establishes an independent budget authority for the Office of Inspector General of WMATA, an independent procurement authority for such office, and an independent hiring authority for such office. Ensures the inspector general can obtain legal advice from a counsel reporting directly to the office. And requires the inspector general to submit recommendations for corrective action to the General Manager, the board, and Congress, and to publish any recommendation on the office's website, with redactions to prevent security risks. DOT may make additional grants to WMATA for the purpose of funding the capital and preventive maintenance projects included in the Capital Improvement Program approved by the board.
This bill directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the posthumous award of a Congressional Gold Medal to Muhammad Ali.
Diesel Tax Fairness Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the excise tax on diesel fuel and kerosene and diesel fuel emulsion until December 31, 2010.
Bond Financing Renewal Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code regarding qualified small issue bonds to: (1) increase the cap and capital expenditure amounts from $10 million to $20 million, with an inflation adjustment beginning in 2004. And (2) expand the definition of manufacturing facility to include certain biotech and software production.
Small Business Banking Regulatory Relief Act of 1999 - Amends Federal banking law with respect to a depository institution's authority to permit the holder of any interest-earning or dividend-earning deposit or account to make withdrawals from such account by negotiable or transferable instrument in order to make payments to third parties. Allows the owner of such an account to make up to 24 transfers per month, for any purpose, to another account in the same institution. Allows any depository institution to permit the owner of any deposit or account to make withdrawals for making payments to third parties. Provides conditions under which a lender or servicer shall pay interest on an escrow account. Repeals Federal provisions which prohibit the payment of interest on demand deposits. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to provide for the payment of earnings by Federal reserve banks on balances maintained at such banks by or on behalf of a depository institution in order to meet Federal reserve requirements. Authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to prescribe regulations with regard to such payments and their distribution and crediting.
Energy and Science Research Investment Act of 2003 - Instructs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) conduct a comprehensive fundamental research program in designated sciences. And (2) upgrade and expand scientific user facilities maintained by the Office of Science in order to ensure that fundamental science programs aid the applied research and development programs of the Department of Energy (DOE). Authorizes appropriations for FY 2004 through 2007. Amends the Department of Energy Organization Act to establish within DOE: (1) an Under Secretary for Energy Research and Science, to serve as the Science and Technology Advisor to the Secretary, and to exercise authority and responsibility over Assistant Secretaries implementing energy research and development, and energy technology functions. (2) an Assistant Secretary of Science to head the Office of Science, (3) an additional position for Assistant Secretary, (4) the position of General Counsel. And (5) a Science Advisory Board composed of the chairs of the advisory panels for each of the programs.
Job Preservation for Parents in Poverty Act - Amends part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act to revise and extend the Emergency Contingency Fund for State Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Programs at current levels through the first quarter of FY2011. Places a certain amount of appropriations in reserve for use in FY2012. Prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) from making a grant from the Emergency Contingency Fund for a fiscal year after FY2012. Limits expenditures for subsidized employment to employment for: (1) a member of a needy family. Or (2) a member of a needy family who has exhausted all rights to receive unemployment compensation under federal and state law. Reduces the funding level of the (regular) Contingency Fund for State Welfare Programs for FY2012 and FY2013 .
Youth Protection From Tobacco Addiction Act of 1996 - Places specified limitations on tobacco advertising, promotion, and packaging.
Enhancing Renewable Energy Investment Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow a 30 energy tax credit through 2016 for equipment used to produce electricity by geothermal power. And (2) require the inclusion in gross income for income tax purposes of employee compensation deferred under a nonqualified deferred compensation plan of certain foreign entities when there is no substantial risk of forfeiture of the rights to such compensation. Amends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 to allow an extension of the grant period for specified energy property in lieu of applicable tax credits.
Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a program to encourage and assist producers, processors, and other handlers of agricultural commodities to donate edible but unmarketable commodities to selected US food banks, soup kitchens, and homeless shelters.
Bank On Our Communities Act of 2009 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to provide that the needs and viability of insured depository institutions with total assets of less than $5 billion may be taken into account by the Secretary of the Treasury when exercising authority under EESA. Establishes within the Treasury the Community Credit Renewal Fund to provide up to $15 billion in assistance to community banking institutions. Prescribes the manner in which a community banking institution may establish its long-term viability by demonstrating receipt of capital from investors other than the Secretary. Subjects a community banking institution to penalties if has failed by December 31, 2010, to: (1) increase its total amount of commercial, industrial, and consumer loans by a dollar amount equal to the amount of capital received from the Secretary. Or (2) increase its total amount of commercial and industrial loans by a dollar amount at least 5 greater than the smallest amount of such loans held by the community banking institution as of any quarter end of the first three quarters in calendar year 2009. Prescribes lending incentives to spur commercial and industrial loans by a community banking institution.
Brownfields Housing and Community Renewal Development Act - Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to establish a grants program for redevelopment activities for brownfield sites and abandoned, idled, and underused industrial, commercial, or housing structures located in brownfield sites.
Meat and Poultry Products Inspection Amendments of 1993 - Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Products Inspection Act to: (1) remove the intrastate distribution requirement for Federal-State cooperation, (2) authorize the use of State inspectors, and (3) expand State inspection authority.
Protecting Honest Fishermen Act of 2015 This bill requires the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to ensure that its seafood inspection activities are coordinated with the national sea grant college program to provide outreach on seafood safety to states, local health agencies, consumers, and the seafood industry. The Department of Commerce and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) must ensure that seafood inspections and tests collect information for seafood fraud detection and prevention. Seafood fraud is defined as the mislabeling or misrepresentation of seafood information. Seafood imported into the United States or distributed or offered for sale in interstate commerce must display through processing, distribution, and final sale: (1) the market and scientific species names, (2) whether the seafood was harvested wild or was farm-raised, (3) the harvest method and date of the catch, and (4) the weight or number of product for an individual fish or lot. Additional information is required for seafood that was: (1) previously frozen, treated with substances affecting weight, or processed in a country other than that in which it was landed or harvested. Or (2) farm-raised. The bill exempts importers, processors, distributors, or retailers from violations for unknowingly selling a product that was already mislabeled upon receipt, provided that such entities can produce the appropriate product traceability documentation. As an alternative to the disclosure requirements for certain categories of information, an importer, processor, distributor, or retailer may make the information available upon request to federal, state, or local officials authorized to conduct inspections of: (1) seafood, or (2) any facility that processes or sells seafood. Persons engaging in fishing on a US vessel in the exclusive economic zone under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act are deemed to be in compliance with traceability requirements if they disclose data required for a fishery management plan. Seafood imports from an exporter shall be refused admission if any shipment of such seafood appears to be in violation of such seafood traceability requirements or other applicable federal laws or regulations. An exception is provided for individual shipments if the exporter presents evidence of compliance from an accredited laboratory. HHS and Commerce must post on their public websites a list that: (1) includes, by country, each exporter whose seafood is imported or offered for import into the United States. And (2) tracks, for each exporter, the timing, type, and frequency of violations. Commerce is required to: (1) increase the number of shipments inspected for seafood fraud by NOAA inspectors and authorized officers, (2) prevent the percentage of seafood shipments inspected from declining in a subsequent year, and (3) ensure that inspections for fraud prevention also collect seafood safety information. The bill also authorizes states to bring civil actions for seafood fraud violations.
Promoting Life-Saving New Therapies for Neonates Act of 2015 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to award the sponsor of a new drug or biological product for the treatment of newborns a neonatal drug exclusivity voucher upon approval of the medication. A neonatal drug exclusivity voucher is a transferable voucher for a one-year extension of all existing patents and marketing exclusivities for a brand name medication. For a sponsor to be eligible for a voucher, the new medication must: (1) treat a condition identified in the Priority List of Critical Needs for Neonates required under this Act, and (2) have been studied in newborns. A voucher may be revoked if the new medication is not marketed in the United States within one year of approval. A voucher may not be used: (1) to extend the marketing exclusivity period for a drug for which the FDA requires an assessment of the safety and effectiveness in newborns, or (2) on the same product as a priority review voucher. A sponsor intending to use a voucher must notify the FDA at least 15 months before the expiration of the patents or exclusivity to be extended. The Government Accountability Office must study the effectiveness of this voucher program.
Amends the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, with respect to procedures for ensuring that any individual is not permitted access to any classified area of a laboratory vault containing Restricted Data, to require such procedures, at a minimum, to provide that an individual shall not have access to any such vault unless, before each access, the individual's identity is verified by an attendant through direct visual observation. Requires the counterintelligence program at each such laboratory to include a polygraph program for individuals with access to any vault containing Restricted Data. Requires each such individual to undergo a polygraph examination within one year after having access to any such vault, in particular within 30 days after first access . Requires the Administrator for Nuclear Security to ensure that the combination of each lock to each laboratory vault containing Restricted Data is changed not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act.
Accessing Medicare Therapies Act of 2013 - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act, with respect to cost-sharing under a prescription drug plan, to require incurred costs to include the negotiated price of a covered part D drug if the drug is: (1) classified in the highest copayment tier. (2) furnished to the individual free or at nominal charge under a compassionate treatment program. And (3) covered under the formulary of the plan, if the drug is furnished other than through such a program, or is available through exception or appeal.
Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act of 2011 - Requires the Secretary of Commerce to establish a Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Program, to be carried out by the Under Secretary for International Trade, to: (1) promote policies to reduce production costs and encourage innovation, investment, and productivity among businesses in the United States that produce or export clean energy technologies or related services. (2) implement a national strategy with respect to the exportation of such technologies and related services. And (3) ensure that such businesses, including suppliers of parts for the production of such technologies and engineering and design firms, have the information and assistance necessary to be competitive and to create and maintain clean energy technology jobs. Defines clean energy technology to means a technology related to the production, use, transmission, storage, control, or conservation of energy that is designed to: (1) reduce the need for additional energy supplies by using existing energy supplies with greater efficiency or by transmitting, distributing, or transporting energy with greater effectiveness. (2) diversify the sources of the energy supply of the United States to strengthen energy security and to increase supplies of energy with a favorable balance of environmental effects if the entire technology system is considered. Or (3) contribute to a stabilization of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations through reduction, avoidance, or long-term sequestration of energy-related emissions. Requires the Under Secretary, consistent with the National Export Initiative, to provide information and other assistance under the Program to businesses, particularly businesses with no more than 500 employees, to promote the production and exportation of such technologies and related services.
Secure and Responsible Drug Disposal Act of 2010 - Amends the Controlled Substances Act to allow an ultimate user of a controlled substance who has lawfully obtained such substance to deliver that substance to another person, without being registered, for disposal if: (1) the person receiving the controlled substance is authorized to engage in such activity. And (2) the disposal takes place in accordance with regulations issued by the Attorney General to prevent diversion of controlled substances. Requires the Attorney General, in developing regulations under this Act, to consider the public health and safety, as well as the ease and cost of program implementation and participation by various communities. Permits the Attorney General to authorize long-term care facilities to dispose of controlled substances on behalf of ultimate users who reside, or have resided, at such facilities in a manner that will provide effective controls against diversion and that is consistent with public health and safety. Directs the United States Sentencing Commission to review and, if appropriate, amend its guidelines and policy statements to ensure an appropriate penalty increase for persons convicted of a drug offense involving receipt of a controlled substance for disposal.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish a rural community service program. Authorizes appropriations.
Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Tax Incentive Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income: (1) 100 percent of the gain from the sale or exchange of qualified farm property to a first-time farmer who certifies that the use of such property shall be as a farm for farming purposes for not less than 10 years after such sale or exchange. (2) 50 percent of the gain from the sale or exchange of qualified farm property to any other person who certifies that the use of such property shall be as a farm for farming purposes for not less than 10 years after such sale or exchange. And (3) 25 percent of the gain from the sale or exchange of qualified farm property to any other person for any other use. Limits the amount of any of the above exclusions with respect to any taxable year to $500,000 on a joint return.
Prohibits any such agreement, export license, or transfer of any such items unless Congress approves the President's report by enactment of a joint resolution. Subjects to the same prohibition and approval requirements any export license for, or transfer or retransfer to North Korea of, any nuclear material, facilities, goods, services, or technology controlled under the Export Trigger List of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Declares that in supporting the provision of nuclear reactors to North Korea pursuant to the Agreed Framework, neither the President nor any US agency may enter into any international agreement, contract, or other arrangement to impose liability on the US Government for nuclear accidents that may occur at nuclear reactors provided to North Korea.
Empowerment of Iraqi Women Act of 2006 - Directs the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) establish a fund to assist women and girls in Iraq in the areas of political, legal, and human rights, health care, education, training, security, and shelter. Directs that the fund: (1) provide direct financial and programmatic assistance to the Iraq Ministry of Women's Affairs to strengthen the Ministry as the government of Iraq transitions to a long-term government structure. And (2) collaborate with the Iraq Ministry of Education to construct women's educational facilities and promote the education of Iraqi girls beyond primary school. Obligates specified economic and humanitarian assistance to Iraq for assistance directly to Iraqi-led local nongovernmental organizations, including Iraqi women-led organizations, with demonstrated experience in delivering services to Iraqi women and children.
Treat and Reduce Obesity Act of 2017 This bill allows coverage, under Medicare, of intensive behavioral therapy for obesity furnished by providers other than primary care physicians and practitioners. Additionally, it allows coverage under Medicare's prescription drug benefit of drugs used for the treatment of obesity or for weight loss management for individuals who are overweight.
Improving Medical Device Innovation Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise provisions related to medical device performance standards, reporting requirements, and classification panels. A person may request that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recognize a performance standard established by a recognized standards organization as a standard to which a medical device may conform in order to meet an FDA requirement. When a request to recognize a standard is received, the FDA must determine whether to recognize all, part, or none of the standard and publish the rationale for that determination. The FDA must: train employees who review premarket submissions for medical devices on recognized standards, review its published principles for recognizing standards. Identify types of medical devices for which a premarket report is no longer needed to provide reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. Ensure that adequate expertise is represented on medical device classification panels. Provide an opportunity for a person whose premarket submission is subject to review by a classification panel to recommend expertise needed on the panel. And provide opportunities for patients, patient representatives, and medical device sponsors to recommend individuals for positions on classification panels. The FDA, in coordination with medical device manufacturers, must establish pilot projects to evaluate alternative methods of compliance with reporting requirements for certain medical devices. The Government Accountability Office must report on these pilot projects.
Requires that a life or disability insurer, if the insurer requires an applicant for life or disability insurance to submit to a medical examination or test, ensure disclosure to the applicant of the test results. Prohibits the insurer from disclosing the results to any other person, except under a written authorization made by the applicant, pursuant to certain legal process, or to a public health authority when expressly required by law. Provides for civil actions for violations of this Act by any aggrieved person, allowing recovery of statutory, compensatory, and punitive damages and attorney's fees. Declares that, for provisions of Federal law commonly known as the McCarran-Ferguson Act prohibiting Federal insurance law from preempting State law unless the Federal law specifically relates to the business of insurance, this Act shall be considered to specifically relate to the business of insurance.
Local Government Landfill Compliance Deadline Act - Exempts municipal solid waste landfills existing as of October 8, 1993, which meet criteria under the Solid Waste Disposal Act as in effect on January 1, 1993, from meeting any revised criteria for a period of one year. Makes such exemption inapplicable to landfill owners or operators who did not make a good faith effort before October 9, 1993, to comply with criteria. Provides for a 180-day extension of the exemption subject to specified factors beyond the control of the owner or operator. Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to issue regulations to revise specified financial assurance requirements under the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) to broaden the mechanisms available to municipal landfill owners or operators for demonstrating financial responsibility. Makes current requirements inapplicable until the effective date of such regulations. Requires the Administrator to issue regulations that exempt certain small landfills from CFR groundwater monitoring requirements.
Waco Mammoth National Monument Establishment Act of 2011 - Establishes the Waco Mammoth National Monument in Texas as a unit of the National Park System. Requires the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with Baylor University and the city of Waco, to complete a general management plan for the Monument.
Alabama Hills National Scenic Area Establishment Act This bill establishes in Inyo County, California, the Alabama Hills National Scenic Area, comprising approximately 18,610 acres of land. The Department of the Interior shall manage the Area as a component of the National Landscape Conservation System. Interior shall allow existing recreational uses of the Area to continue, including hiking, mountain biking, rock climbing, sightseeing, horseback riding, hunting, fishing, and appropriate authorized motorized vehicle use. The use of motorized vehicles in the Area shall be permitted only on: roads and trails designated by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for use of such vehicles as part of a management plan sustaining a semi-primitive motorized experience, or on county-maintained roads. Nothing in this bill creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the National Scenic Area. Interior shall continue to provide private landowners with adequate access to inholdings in the Area. Livestock grazing already established in the Area, including grazing under the Alabama Hills and the George Creek allotments, shall continue. The federal land within the area is withdrawn from: (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws. And (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials. Interior may make grants to, or enter into cooperative agreements with, state, tribal, and local governmental and private entities to conduct research, interpretation, or public education or to carry out any other initiative related to the restoration, conservation, or management of the Area. The management plan shall establish plans for maintenance of public utility and other rights of way within the Area. Interior shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-term management of the Area. In developing this plan, Interior shall: consult with appropriate state, tribal, and local governmental entities, including Inyo County and the Lone Pine Paiute-Shoshone Tribe. And seek input from investor-owned utilities , the Alabama Hills Stewardship Group, members of the public, and the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power. In developing the management plan, Interior shall allow, in perpetuity, casual-use mining limited to the use of hand tools, metal detectors, hand-fed dry washers, vacuum cleaners, gold pans, small sluices, and similar items. Interior shall take approximately 132 acres of federal land into trust for the benefit of the Lone-Pine Paiute-Shoshone Tribe, which shall be considered part of the Tribe's reservation, excluding a specified right-of-way granted to the City of Los Angeles. Gaming shall not be allowed on such trust land. The bill transfers administrative jurisdiction of approximately 56 acres of specified federal land from the US Forest Service to the BLM. Valid, existing, commercial permits for guided recreational opportunities for the public may continue. No additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this bill, which shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to suspend excise taxes on gasoline and diesel fuels between May 26, 2008, and September 1, 2008. Provides for reimbursement from the Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund for any reduction in Trust Fund receipts resulting from such suspension. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) consumers immediately receive the benefit of the reduction in taxes resulting from the suspension of gasoline excise taxes. And (2) transportation motor fuels producers and other dealers take necessary actions to reduce fuel prices to reflect such reduction in taxes. Directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to monitor oil, diesel, and gasoline markets to: (1) ensure that consumers receive the benefit resulting from the suspension of taxes. And (2) prevent price gouging and market manipulation. Imposes in taxable years beginning in 2008 an excise fee of 50 of the excess profit of integrated oil companies and other producers or refiners of crude oil with gross receipts exceeding $1 billion. Defines excess profit for purposes of this Act. Directs the Secretary of Energy to suspend acquisition of petroleum for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve through the royalty-in-kind program or any other acquisition method until December 31, 2008. Permits an earlier resumption of petroleum acquisition for periods when the weighted average price of petroleum is $75 or less per barrel.
Supporting Transparent Regulatory and Environmental Actions in Mining Act of 2015 or the STREAM Act of 2015 This bill amends the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to direct the Department of the Interior to make publicly available the scientific products used in developing a rule under the Act or any related environmental impact statement, environmental assessment, or economic assessment when the rule or assessment is published. If those scientific products received federal funds, Interior must also make publicly available the data used and the background information of its authors. If Interior does not comply, the notice and comment period for the rules and assessments will be extended by specified periods. A rule or an assessment must be withdrawn if Interior fails to comply for more than 180 days. In carrying out the Act, Interior: (1) may not make any determination regarding certain agency action subject to specified mining and environmental Acts, and (2) shall defer to the determinations of an agency or state authority implementing those Acts with respect to any agency action under the jurisdiction of that agency or state.
Citizens Right to Know Act of 2010 - Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to require issuers of securities to disclose to their shareholders electioneering communications they have made or in which they have participated. Prohibits an issuer from making or participating in any electioneering communication if 51 or more of its outstanding securities are owned or controlled by a foreign principal or agent of a foreign principal. Requires an issuer to obtain prior approval by majority vote of all shareholders before making or participating in any electioneering communication. Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to require that: (1) audio and television communications be made by the president or chief executive officer of the corporation paying for such communications. And (2) they identify the individual by name and position. Requires a communication paid for by an organization other than a corporation to include a statement listing the names of the three persons making the largest aggregate contributions to the organization during the 12-month period before the date of the communication. Sets forth Internet disclosure requirements for contributors to certain radio and television ads that are electioneering communications.
Central American Deportation Relief Act - Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 with regard to suspension of deportation provisions to modify: (1) the physical presence rule concerning certain reinitiated proceedings. And (2) the hardship rule. Provides a special determination of physical presence rule for certain Salvadoran, Guatemalan, or Nicaraguan nationals granted temporary deportation protection. Authorizes certain aliens to file motions to reopen their deportation proceedings. Revises related annual limitation and offset provisions.
Seeds for the Future Act This bill amends the Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research Grant Act to require the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to ensure that at least $50 million of USDA grant funding is used each year for competitive research grants that support the development of public cultivars. A cultivar is a variety of plant that has been intentionally selected for use in cultivation because of its improved characteristics. A public cultivar is the commercially available uniform end product of a publicly funded breeding program that has been sufficiently tested to demonstrate improved characteristics and stable performance. The bill also amends the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish a public cultivar research activities coordinator within USDA to coordinate research activities relating to the breeding of public cultivars.
Common Sense Spending Act of 2005 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to extend discretionary spending limits through FY 2010. Repeals requirements for inclusion in a sequestration report of adjustments to discretionary limits for: (1) continuing disability reviews by the Social Security Administration. (2) specified allowances for the International Monetary Fund and international arrearages, (3) any earned income tax credit compliance initiative, (4) adoption incentive payments. And (5) conservation spending. Requires an adjustment to discretionary spending limits equal to the estimated resulting reduction in mandatory budget authority and outlays utilizing accrual methods, if enacted legislation charges Federal agencies for the full cost of accrued Federal retirement and health benefits, and an appropriations Act provides new budget authority to carry out such legislation. Revises PAYGO requirements to remove receipts from the requirement that any legislation enacted before FY 2011 affecting direct spending that increases the deficit will trigger an offsetting sequestration. Revises the formula for calculating the amount of deficit increase or decrease by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Requires OMB to assume an automatic deficit increase of $8.4 billion before making such calculations for FY 2005. States that, with respect to eliminating a deficit increase, accounts shall be assumed to be at the level in the baseline for FY 2006 and for FY 2007 through 2010 at the baseline after adjusting for any sequester in FY 2005. Revises the definition of baseline to exclude emergency appropriations and legislation. Prohibits such emergency appropriations from being extended in the baseline. Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to require that the committee report and any statement of managers accompanying proposed legislation analyze whether a proposed emergency requirement meets a specified definition of emergency. Prohibits the consideration of any such legislation that does not meet this emergency definition.
Cyber Security Information Act - Prohibits the disclosure of cyber security information that is voluntarily provided to a Federal entity. Provides that any such information voluntarily provided directly to the Government about its own cyber security, a third party's cyber security, or to an Information Sharing Organization which is subsequently provided to the Government in identifiable form shall: (1) be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, (2) not be disclosed to any third party. And (3) not be used by any Federal or State entity or by any third party in any civil action. Makes the antitrust laws inapplicable to conduct engaged in solely for the purpose of and limited to: (1) facilitating the correction or avoidance of a cyber security-related problem. Or (2) communication of or disclosing information to help correct or avoid the effects of a cyber security-related program. Authorizes the President to establish and terminate working groups composed of Federal employees who will engage outside organizations in discussions to address or share information related to cyber security, and otherwise to serve the purposes of this Act.
Fan Freedom and Community Protection Act of 1996 - Requires a professional sports team owner seeking to relocate the team to provide notice to the local government for the community in which the team's stadium or arena is located , the sports authority with jurisdiction over the stadium or facility, any owner or operator of such stadium or facility, and the professional sports league concerned and each member team. Requires such notice to: (1) be delivered in person or by certified mail and published in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the home community. And (2) include the proposed new location, a summary of the reasons for moving, and the date on which the change is scheduled to become effective. Directs a league, within a year after the submission of the name of an investor, to grant to the investor a new expansion team franchise at a fee no greater, and on terms and conditions no less favorable, than those granted to the last expansion team franchise granted. Authorizes the league, for ten years after granting an expansion team franchise, to approve a resale of the team but not the team's relocation, except as provided herein. Makes this section inapplicable to a team that relocates within 25 miles of the home community and remains within the State in which the home community is located. Permits, under the antitrust laws, a league to enforce rules or agreements authorizing its membership to decide whether a member team may relocate. Requires a league, in determining whether to approve such relocation, to make specific written findings, including findings regarding fan loyalty and the extent to which the team received public financial support. Specifies that no decision by a league to permit a relocation shall be valid or final until the league has: (1) conducted at least two public hearings in the home community. (2) permitted any interested member of the public to deliver oral, or file written, comments. (3) published written findings in a local home community newspaper setting forth the basis of such decision. And (4) delivered copies of such findings to the local government of the home community and any sports authority. Requires an owner who relocates a team from one playing facility to another and who, in so doing, breaches a contract with the State or local government to pay to such government the value of financial assistance provided by the State or local government to the team. Makes a team owner who violates the requirement of this section liable to the State or local government that provided financial assistance to the team for an amount equal to three times the value of the assistance provided. Makes a league that violates the requirement to grant a new team franchise: (1) liable to the home community in which a team was previously located for damages of three times the purchase price or market value of the team, whichever is greater. (2) subject to the suspension for one season of its antitrust exemption for pooling the broadcasting rights to games. And (3) subject to the loss of the antitrust exemption under this Act for the franchise relocation that led to the violation. Sets forth enforcement provisions.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on June 13, 2016. NSF Major Research Facility Reform Act of 2016 This bill directs the National Science Foundation (NSF) to maintain a Large Facilities Office to support its research directorates in the development, implementation, and assessment of major multi-user research facilities. The NSF shall appoint a senior agency official to head the Office, whose responsibility shall be to oversee development, construction, and transfer to operations of major multi-user facilities across the NSF. The bill requires: an external cost proposal analysis for any major multi-user research facility. The resolution of all issues identified, including any unjustified or questionable cost items. And biennial incurred cost audits of any such facility. The NSF shall not make any award which arranges for contributions to an awardee's contingency reserve. The NSF shall update its Large Facilities Manual and any other applicable guidance for estimating, monitoring, and accounting for contingencies on major multi-user research facilities. The updated policy shall state that the NSF: (1) may only include contingency amounts in an award meeting specified criteria. And (2) shall retain control over funds budgeted for contingency, but may disburse budgeted contingency funds incrementally to an awardee to ensure project stability and continuity. An awardee shall: (1) furnish verifiable documentation to support proposed contingency amounts, and (2) support requests for the release of contingency funds with evidence of a bona fide need and reasonable and allowable allocations to the performance baseline. The NSF shall work with current awardees to: (1) determine if any of their use of contingency funds represents out-of-scope changes for which prior NSF written approval was not obtained, and (2) identify appropriate financial action regarding any out-of-scope changes found. The NSF may include management fees under an award for ordinary and legitimate business expenses, not otherwise allowable, only if the awardee furnishes a justification of need. The NSF shall require award applicants to report: income and financial information covering at least three prior years, including cash on hand and net asset information, in support of a request for management fees. And any sources of nonfederal funds received in excess of $50,000 during the award period. The NSF shall require awardees to track and report annually all expenses reimbursed or otherwise paid for with management fee funds. The bill specifies prohibited uses for management fees. The bill subjects the NSF to the pilot program for enhancement of contractor protection from reprisal for (whistleblower) disclosure of certain information. The NSF shall arrange for education and training for NSF managers and staff on the pilot program and furnish information on it to all awardees and contractors and their employees.
Benjamin Franklin True Patriot Act - Provides that each provision of law, regulation, or other policy directive listed in this Act and any amendments made by that provision, shall cease to have effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Authorizes Congress, during such period and at the request of the President, to hold hearings to determine whether a particular section should be removed from the list with respect to the USA PATRIOT Act. Applies this Act to specified provisions in: (1) the USA PATRIOT Act. (2) the Aviation Security Act excluding permanent resident aliens from being baggage checkers, (3) the Homeland Security Act 2002, (4) certain immigration regulations. (5) the Federal Register relating to monitoring conversations between attorneys and clients. (6) the memorandum of Attorney General Ashcroft dated October 12, 2001, and relating to the disclosure of documents under the Freedom of Information Act. And (7) any regulations having the effect of changing the effect of Attorney General Dick Thornburg's Guidelines on General Crimes, Racketeering Enterprise and Domestic SecurityTerrorism Investigations , approved March 21, 1989.
Solar Stimulus for Job Creation and Energy Independence Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) provide for the refundability of the energy tax credit for investment in property used to manufacture solar energy property through 2010. And (2) exempt certain solar energy property from private activity bond usage and loan financing rules. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to limit to 25 years the contract period for federal purchases of renewable energy.
Critical Minerals and Materials Promotion Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Geological Survey (USGS), to establish a research and development program to: (1) provide data and scientific analyses for research on, and assessments of the potential for, undiscovered and discovered resources of critical minerals and materials in the United States and other countries. (2) analyze and assess current and future critical minerals and materials supply chains. And (3) cooperate with international partners to ensure that the research and assessment programs provide analyses of the global supply chain of critical minerals and materials. Directs the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to conduct a research, development, and demonstration program to strengthen the domestic critical minerals and materials supply chain for clean energy technologies, and to ensure the long-term, secure, and sustainable supply of critical minerals and materials sufficient to strengthen the national security and meet the clean energy production needs of the United States. Directs the Secretary of Energy to promote the development of the critical minerals and materials industry workforce in the United States by supporting: (1) critical minerals and materials education by providing undergraduate and graduate scholarships and fellowships at institutions of higher education, including technical and community colleges. (2) partnerships between industry and institutions of higher education, including technical and community colleges, to provide onsite job training. And (3) development of courses and curricula on critical minerals and materials. Expresses the policy of the United States to promote an adequate and stable supply of critical minerals and materials necessary to maintain national security, economic well-being, and industrial production with appropriate attention to a long-term balance between resource production, energy use, a healthy environment, natural resources conservation, and social needs. Directs the President take specified steps to implement such policy.
Directs the Secretary of the Interior to sell at fair market value 265 cabin sites and related appurtenances around the Canyon Ferry Reservoir, Montana. Requires: (1) a sealed bidding process for such sale, (2) a required minimum bid to be met. And (3) the Canyon Ferry Recreation Association to have the right to match the highest bid offered for such properties. Outlines other conveyance terms, including: (1) allowing individual cabin leaseholders who cannot purchase their site to continue to lease such site for two consecutive five-year periods. And (2) directing the Secretary to complete the conveyance within one year after enactment of this Act. Directs the Secretary to: (1) negotiate an agreement with the Broadwater County, Montana, Board of Supervisors to transfer management of the Silo's and White Earth recreation areas. And (2) assess the need for creating a harbor adjacent to the eastern shore of the south half of the Reservoir. Establishes the Canyon Ferry Lake Trust for the deposit and use of funds for various improvements to the Reservoir and Canyon Ferry area.
Federal Protective Service Reform and Enhancement Act of 2010 - Authorizes: (1) appropriations to the Director of the Federal Protective Service (FPS) for FY2011 to carry out counterterrorism functions. And (2) 1,200 full-time equivalent positions in the inspector force that monitor performance of security personal services procured by contract. Grants the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), acting through FPS, lead authority in the executive branch to carry out counterterrorism functions on federal property managed by the General Services Administration (GSA). Requires the Secretary to submit to Congress a five-year budget outlook and strategic plan for FPS. Requires annual updates. Directs the Secretary, through the Director, to: (1) conduct facility security assessments, (2) prepare a report on each assessment. And (3) give the facility security committee established for such a facility a 60-day period to review and comment on each report. Provides for the selection by GSA of recommendations for implementation. Requires: (1) the Secretary to develop minimum standards for training and annual recertification for FPS's contract guards. (2) the Director to establish a three-year pilot program in not less than three level IV facilities to test and evaluate to what extent efficiencies exist in having a federalized guard staff and to what extent such a staff provides a measurable improvement in security. And (3) the Comptroller General to monitor and review the program. Grants the Secretary a right of entry to property for which security is provided by FPS for unannounced inspections. Requires the Secretary to conduct security inspections, including unannounced inspections, of such properties. Directs the Director to publish: (1) a list of qualified vendors and products that would promote common standards of deployment of personnel and technology, (2) standards for training personnel among all FPS protected properties. And (3) best practices for utilizing items on the qualified products list. Directs the Secretary to issue and implement a list of items that are prohibited from being brought into facilities protected by FPS unless specifically authorized on a case-by-case basis.
Safe Transit and Rail Awareness and Investments for National Security Act of 2004 - Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to make grants to improve the security of public transportation systems against acts of terrorism. Sets forth grant uses and requirements. Directs grant recipients to submit to the Secretary their emergency response plan as well as a plan for conducting exercises for emergency response and public transportation employee training pursuant to guidelines published by the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop and disseminate to appropriate owners, operators, and providers of public transportation systems , and Federal, State, and local officials, a report containing best practices for the security of public transportation systems. (2) develop a national plan for public outreach and awareness of measures the public can take to increase public transportation system security. (3) develop a strategic plan for the security of the Nation's public transportation systems. (4) execute in conjunction with the Secretary of Transportation, a Memorandum of Agreement governing the responsibilities of the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Transportation, respectively, in addressing security matters for public transportation systems. And (5) establish National Transportation Security Centers at institutions of higher education to assist in carrying out this Act, to conduct research and education, and to develop or provide professional training of public transportation employees. Sets forth certain whistleblower protections for employees or other persons who have commenced, testified at, or participated in, a proceeding to enhance public transportation security, or who have refused to violate or assist in the violation of any regulation related to public transportation security.
Veterans Homebuyer Accessibility Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax credit for first-time homebuyers, to: (1)nbsp. Allow a veteran of the Armed Forces a tax credit for 10 of the purchase price of a principal residence purchased prior to January 1, 2018, (2)nbsp. Allow an additional credit for the cost, not exceeding $8,000 in a taxable year, of installing special fixtures or movable facilities in a residence to accommodate a disability of the veteran. And (3) require a recapture of credit amounts if the veteran sells such residence within 36 months after purchasing it.
This bill directs the Department of the Interior to sell at fair market value specified rights, title, and interest to federal lands in Mohave County, Arizona , to qualified entities . A qualified entity shall receive fee simple title to such covered land. Interior shall determine the market value of the covered land in accordance with: the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976, and the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. Interior's authority to sell covered land expires 10 years after the enactment of this bill.
Enhancing Employment and Training Through Education Act of 2013 - Amends the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 to direct the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to carry out pilot projects to identify best practices for employment and training programs to increase the number of work registrants who obtain unsubsidized employment, increase their earned income, and reduce their reliance on public assistance, including but not limited to the supplemental nutrition assistance program . Sets forth selection criteria.
Children's Products Safety Act of 2007 - Amends the Consumer Product Safety Act to require every manufacturer of an article for use by a child under 60 months of age which is subject to a consumer product safety standard or a rule under any Act administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) declaring a consumer product a banned hazardous product to certify, based on testing conducted by a nongovernmental independent third party, that the product conforms to such standard or is not a banned hazardous product. Bars importation of such articles lacking independent third party certification.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individuals a tax deduction of up to $100 for political contributions.
Civic Participation and Rehabilitation Act of 1999 - Declares that the right of a US citizen to vote in any election for Federal office shall not be denied or abridged because that individual has been convicted of a criminal offense, unless the individual is serving a felony sentence in a correctional institution or facility at the time of the election. Authorizes the Attorney General, in a civil action, to obtain such declaratory or injunctive relief as is necessary to remedy a violation of this Act. Creates a private right of action, subject to specified requirements.
Medicare Fraud Enforcement and Prevention Act of 2010 - Amends title XI of the Social Security Act (SSA) to increase criminal penalties for both felony and misdemeanor fraud under SSA titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid). Adds a new offense of distribution of two or more Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary identification numbers or billing privileges with the intent to defraud. Applies civil monetary penalties to: (1) conspiracy to make false statements or commit other specified offenses with respect to Medicare or Medicaid claims. And (2) knowing creation or use of false records or statements with respect to the transmission of money or property to a federal health care program. Extends the statute of limitations from six to 10 years after presentation of a claim. Amends SSA title XVIII (Medicare), as amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), to revise screening requirements. Amends SSA title XI, as amended by PPACA, to require the access to claims and payment data granted to Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Attorney General to include access to real time claims and payment data. Requires the HHS Inspector General to implement mechanisms for the sharing of information about suspected fraud relating to the federal health care programs under Medicare, Medicaid, and SSA title XXI (CHIP) with other appropriate law enforcement officials. Directs the HHS Secretary to carry out a five-year pilot program that implements biometric technology to ensure that individuals entitled to benefits under Medicare part A or enrolled under Medicare part B are physically present at the time and place of receipt of certain items and services for which payment may be made. Requires the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on Medicare administrative contractors, including Recovery Audit Contractors.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Identification of Environmental High Impact Areas Title II: Enforcement Initiatives Title III: Community Participation Title IV: Identification and Prevention of Health Impacts Title V: Health Remedies Title VI: Pollution Reduction Title VII: Promotion of Green Space Title VIII: Funding Environmental Justice Act of 1999 - Title I: Identification of Environmental High Impact Areas - Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to publish a list of 20 Environmental High Impact Areas (EHIAs) that are either counties or other geographic units in which high levels of chemicals are present and in which the population is exposed to such chemicals. Provides for revision and republication of such list at least every five years. Title II: Enforcement Initiatives - Directs the Administrator and the Assistant Secretary of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to conduct compliance inspections or reviews of all toxic chemical facilities in EHIAs within one year after the publication of each EHIA list under title I. Title III: Community Participation - Requires the Administrator to make technical assistance grants for individuals in EHIAs for purposes of seeking guidance from experts to improve understanding of environmental and health concerns related to designation as an EHIA. Title IV: Identification and Prevention of Health Impacts - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to issue for public comment a report identifying the methodology used and nature and extent of acute and chronic impacts on human health in EHIAs as compared to non-EHIAs. Provides for a moratorium on the siting or permitting of any new toxic chemical facility in an EHIA shown to emit toxic chemicals in quantities causing significant adverse health impacts if the report finds significant adverse impacts of environmental pollution on human health in EHIAs. Permits such siting or permitting during a moratorium period only if the Secretary and Administrator agree that: (1) there will be no significant adverse health impacts. (2) the facility owner or operator demonstrates that the facility has a plan to maintain a comprehensive pollution prevention program. And (3) the facility demonstrates that it will minimize uncontrolled releases into the environment. Title V: Health Remedies - Requires the Secretary to establish a grant program to make available to public and nonprofit private entities awards for providing community-wide medical screening and diagnostic services for environmentally related illnesses in EHIAs shown to have adverse health outcomes related to environmental exposures. Title VI: Pollution Reduction - Directs the Administrator, in EHIAs where the Secretary has determined that adverse health outcomes are related to environmental exposures, to take efforts immediately to reduce pollution. Requires the Administrator to make available pollution reduction and prevention grants to States with EHIAs for developing pollution reduction strategies. Authorizes the Administrator to take regulatory steps to reduce pollution if significant steps have not been made to reduce pollution and risk to human health in such areas. Title VII: Promotion of Green Space - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a grant program to make available to local public or nonprofit private entities within EHIAs awards for the development of parks and recreational spaces and to provide guidance for promoting environmentally sound use of land. Title VIII: Funding - Authorizes appropriations.
MediFair Act of 2002 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a system for making adjustments to the amount of payment to entities and individuals for items and services provided under the original Medicare fee-for-service program under Medicare parts A and B for the stated purpose of improving payment equity under such program. Directs the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission to develop recommendations for Congress on policies and practices that, if implemented, would encourage: (1) healthy outcomes and quality care under the Medicare program in States with respect to which payments are reduced under the system under this Act. And (2) the efficient use of payments made under the Medicare program in such States.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to disallow a tax deduction for oil cleanup costs, except: (1) spills involving less than 36,000 gallons of oil, (2) facility closures and cleanup completions. And (3) oil discharge costs where the taxpayer has a complete liability defense. Prohibits the net operating loss deduction from reducing taxable income to an amount less than the amount disallowed for oil cleanup costs. Treats qualified oil facility expenditures to reduce risks of oil spills as expenses which are not chargeable to capital account. Allows such expenditures as a deduction.
Designates the structure of the Gateway Arch and Old St. Louis Courthouse as National Historic Landmarks. Designates the grounds of the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial surrounding the Arch for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on June 17, 2015. DHS Paid Administrative Leave Accountability Act of 2015 Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the head of each component of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), on a quarterly basis, to submit to the Chief Human Capital Officer of DHS : (1) the number of employees who had been on administrative leave, or any other type of paid non-duty status without charge to leave, for personnel matters for six consecutive months or longer. (2) the total cost to the component associated with such leave and paid non-duty status for the quarter. And (3) the average duration that employees are placed on administrative leave, or any other type of paid non-duty status without charge to leave, for personnel matters for a period of six consecutive months or longer. Requires the Chief to: (1) maintain records of the number of such employees and the associated costs. And (2) determine appropriate actions to be taken by DHS to resolve any personnel matter objectively, appropriately, and expeditiously or to reduce the use of such leave and paid non-duty status in addressing any personnel matter. Encourages DHS to leverage systems and operations in use on the date of this Act's enactment to implement this Act's requirements. Directs the Chief to develop and implement a department-wide policy in accordance with existing federal guidance specifically related to the use of such leave or paid non-duty status for personnel matters. Requires such policy to: (1) include the responsibilities of the DHS components for reporting information relating to such administrative leave and such paid non-duty status to the Chief, and (2) provide guidance on expediting the resolution of a personnel matter for which an employee has been on administrative leave or any other type of paid non-duty status without charge to leave for a period of six consecutive months or longer in an objective and appropriate manner. Directs the Chief to submit a report after each calendar quarter of 2016-2018 on the number of DHS employees on such leave or paid non-duty status for personnel matters for six consecutive months or longer. Requires each such report to include: (1) the costs to DHS associated with the placement of such employees on administrative leave or such paid non-duty status for the period covered by the report. And (2) a description of any actions taken by DHS to resolve any personnel matter for which an employee has been placed on administrative leave or paid non-duty status without charge to leave.
Cormorant Management and Natural Resources Protection Act - Amends the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to delegate the authority of the Secretary of the Interior under such Act with respect to double-crested cormorants to a state on the date the Secretary approves a cormorant management plan submitted by such state. Requires the Secretary to: (1) approve or disapprove a management plan within 60 days of the plan's submission, (2) approve such plan if it is in accordance with US obligations under treaties and federal law, (3) provide to the relevant governor the reasons for disapproving a plan and an opportunity to revise and resubmit the plan, (4) review each approved state management plan every five years, and (5) revoke such approval and delegation if the plan or the governor's exercise of delegated authority is not in accordance with such Act or any treaty implemented by such Act. Deems a management plan approved if the Secretary doesn't approve or disapprove it within 60 days after submission. Applies an approved management plan in lieu of regulations issued under such Act. Requires the Secretary to conduct educational and informational activities for the owners and operators of aquaculture facilities to improve their efforts to prevent cormorants from consuming aquatic species being reared in such facilities.
Federal Reserve Accountability Act of 2009 - Authorizes the Comptroller General to conduct reviews of , and report to Congress on, the accounting, financial reporting, and internal controls of credit facilities established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any Federal Reserve bank, including when such activities are implemented by or on behalf of the Board or any official of a Federal Reserve bank. Defines credit facilities as: (1) the Money Market Investor Funding Facility. (2) the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility, (3) the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, (4) the Primary Dealer Credit Facility, (5) the Commercial Paper Funding Facility. And (6) certain other credit facilities approved by the Board, as well as any special purpose vehicle through which any activity of such facilities is conducted. Requires the Board to place on its home Internet website a link entitled Audit to a webpage that serves as a repository of public information for not less than six months following the release of the relevant information, including: (1) the reports prepared pursuant to this Act. (2) the annual financial statements prepared by an independent auditor for the Board. And (3) any other information the Board believes is necessary or helpful to the public in understanding its accounting, financial reporting, and internal controls as well as those of the Federal Reserve banks.
Resolution of the Ethiopia-Eritrea Border Dispute Act of 2004 - Expresses the sense of Congress that both Ethiopia and Eritrea should: (1) take all appropriate actions to implement the Algiers Agreements, including by accepting the Delimitation Decision issued by the neutral Boundary Commission on April 13, 2002, with respect to the boundary between the two countries. And (2) fully cooperate with the United Nations (UN) Special Envoy for Ethiopia-Eritrea. Declares that: (1) Congress expresses its support for the Boundary Commission established by the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and calls on the international community to continue to support the UN trust fund to facilitate the demarcation process between Ethiopia and Eritrea and the economic and social transition of affected communities to new borders. (2) it shall be US policy to limit US assistance for Ethiopia or Eritrea if either country is not in compliance with, or is not taking significant steps to comply with the Algiers Agreements. And (3) Congress strongly condemns statements by senior Ethiopian officials criticizing the Boundary Commission's decision and calls on the Government of Ethiopia to accept the Commission's decision. States that economic and military assistance for Ethiopia or Eritrea may only be provided for any period of time for which the President determines that either Ethiopia or Eritrea is in compliance with, or is taking significant steps to comply with, the Algiers Agreements. Authorizes presidential waiver of such provision for national security purposes. Exempts from such provision assistance for humanitarian or human rights purposes, or for HIVAIDS control. Directs the President to establish, after finalization of the Ethiopian-Eritrean border demarcation, an integration and border development initiative, including projects to: (1) increase basic services, (2) develop free trade and community development. And (3) reinforce peace and reconciliation. Sets forth presidential reporting requirements.
Community Protection and Preparedness Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of Transportation (DOT), annually, to impose a $1,500 fee for each DOT-111 specification railroad tank car used to transport Class 3 flammable liquids during the previous fiscal year that did not meet DOT-117, DOT-117P, or DOT-117R specifications at the time it was used. Such fee shall be paid by each person who causes such liquids to be transported by such car in commerce and not by the railroad carrier that transports such liquids. Collected fees shall be deposited into a Rail Account established within the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund and shall be available only for: (1) the payment of removal and remediation costs and other costs, expenses, claims, and damages related to an accident or incident involving the transportation of Class 3 flammable liquids by rail. And (2) DOT grants to states and Indian tribes to develop emergency plans and to train regional hazardous material emergency response teams and public employees responding to such an accident or incident. DOT shall issue such regulations as necessary to require each Class I railroad carrier to inspect all track where an accident or incident involving the transportation by rail of flammable liquids or material poisonous or toxic by inhalation could affect a quot, high consequence areaquot. . The inspections shall be carried out on foot and by a gage restraint measurement system. An inspector who finds a deviation from requirements regarding track safety standards shall immediately initiate remedial action. Necessary amounts are authorized for the Federal Railroad Administration to hire at least two additional track safety specialists per region.
Expedited CARD Reform for Consumers Act of 2009 - Amends the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 to: (1) make Title I: Consumer Protection, Title II: Enhanced Consumer Disclosures, and Title III: Protection of Young Consumers effective as of the date of enactment of this Act. And (2) make February 22, 2010, the effective date of such titles for a depository institution with fewer than two million credit cards in circulation on the date of the enactment of the Credit CARD Act of 2009. Amends the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) to make conforming amendments with respect to review of past consumer interest rate increases. Amends TILA to move to the date of enactment of this Act: (1) the deadline by which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) must issue final implementing rules for required creditor reviews of changes in factors considered in past consumer annual percentage interest rate (APR) increases when determining whether to reduce the APR. And (2) the effective date of the creditor review requirement. But makes February 22, 2010, the rules deadline, and August 22, 2010, the effective date of the creditor review requirement governing a depository institution that has fewer than two million credit cards in circulation on the date of the enactment of this Act. Declares the date of enactment of this Act: (1) the effective date of the requirement that any penalty fee or charge that a credit card issuer may impose, including a late payment fee, over-the-limit fee, or any other penalty fee or charge, be reasonable and proportional to the omission or violation to which it relates. And (2) the deadline for the Board to issue final implementing rules establishing standards for assessing whether any such penalty fee or charge is reasonable and proportional. But makes February 22, 2010, the rules deadline, and August 22, 2010, the effective date of the reasonable and proportional requirement itself, with respect to a depository institution with fewer than two million credit cards in circulation on the date of the enactment of this Act. States that TILA does not prevent a creditor from putting into effect immediately: (1) any reduction in APR. (2) elimination or reduction of any fee imposed on a consumer. Or (3) any significant change in terms for the benefit of the consumer. Defers until February 22, 2010, the effective date of the new requirement under the Act that a credit card issuer must apply amounts in excess of the minimum payment amount first to the card balance bearing the highest rate of interest. Conditions this moratorium, however, on the creditor's refraining from: (1) increasing any APR, or fees or finance charges applicable to any existing or future balance. Or (2) changing the account terms to the detriment of a consumer, including repayment of any outstanding balance . Amends TILA to prohibit either a creditor or a consumer reporting agency from using the pay off or closure of a consumer credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan to negatively impact the consumer's credit score or consumer report when the consumer pays off an outstanding account balance within 45 days after receiving notice of the imposition of a new fee. Imposes a limited moratorium on APR, fee, and finance charge increases, beginning on the date of enactment of this Act. Prohibits a creditor, during the moratorium period, from: (1) increasing any APR, fee, or finance charge applicable to any outstanding balance of a credit card account under an open end consumer credit plan. Or (2) changing the repayment terms of an outstanding balance . Ends such moratorium nine months after the date of enactment of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 .
Directs the Attorney General to: (1) conduct an evaluation of potential problem officer early warning programs utilized by local governments. (2) develop a model early warning system that is effective, capable of adjusting to changing circumstances, and affordable to local governments of jurisdictions with populations of 50,000 or more. And (3) prepare and disseminate findings and recommendations to the law enforcement community for the establishment of such programs. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) reporting requirements. And (2) payment of expenses incurred in conducting the evaluation and developing a model system. Expresses thhe sense of the Congress that: (1) the Attorney General should make seed money grants of up to $25,000 to local governments for assisting in establishing such programs. And (2) local governments should be eligible if they adopt and enforce policies prohibiting unreasonable or unnecessary force by law enforcement officers and procedures for receiving and investigating citizen complaints.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that dividend income shall be taxed as net capital gain.
Enhancing Teaching Standards and License Portability Act of 2007 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award a competitive grant to a partnership between an organization representing state educational agency administrators and one or more independent professional organizations that have teacher preparation, licensure, and assessment expertise to: (1) enhance kindergarten through grade 12 teaching standards. (2) develop performance-based teaching assessments that are linked to such standards and can be used for licensing. And (3) provide technical assistance and matching subgrants to states to adopt such teaching standards and assessments, align their licensing systems to such standards, and facilitate teacher license portability across the states.
Amends the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 to extend the provisions of the Livestock Mandatory Price Reporting Act of 1999 through September 30, 2010. Amends swine price reporting provisions.
Immigrant Children's Educational Advancement and Dropout Prevention Act of 2001 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to direct the Attorney General to cancel the removal of, and adjust to permanent resident status, certain alien secondary or college students with qualifying years of US residency. Makes such aliens eligible for Federal and State higher education assistance during the pendency of their application for cancellation of removal. Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to repeal the provision prohibiting an unlawful alien's eligibility for higher education benefits based on State residence unless a US national is similarly eligible without regard to such State residence.
Katie Sepich Enhanced DNA Collection Act of 2010 - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to increase payments to states under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program for implementing a minimum or an enhanced DNA collection process. Increases such payments by 5 for states that implement a minimum DNA collection process and by 10 for states that implement an enhanced DNA process. Defines minimum DNA collection process as a process under which the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS) of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is searched at least one time against samples of individuals who are at least 18 years of age and who are arrested for, charged with, or indicted for crimes involving murder, manslaughter, sexual assaults, and kidnapping or abduction. Defines enhanced DNA collection process as a process under which states provide for the collection, for purposes of inclusion in CODIS, of DNA samples from individuals who are at least 18 years of age and who are arrested or charged with crimes involving murder, manslaughter, sexual assault, certain sexual offenses involving a minor, burglary, and aggravated assault. Directs the Attorney General to submit to the Judiciary Committees of Congress an annual report: (1) listing states which have implemented a minimum or enhanced DNA collection process and which use such processes, (2) describing the increases in grant payments to states. And (3) including statistics on benefits to law enforcement resulting from the implementation of minimum and enhanced DNA collection processes. Authorizes appropriations for FY2011-FY2015.
Poison Center Support, Enhancement, and Awareness Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide coordination and assistance for the maintenance of the nationwide toll-free phone number to access poison control centers. Requires the Secretary to carry out and expand upon a national media campaign to educate the public and health care providers about poison prevention and the availability of poison control center resources in local communities. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into contracts with nationally recognized organizations in the field of poison control and national media firms for the development and implementation of a nationwide poison prevention and poison control center awareness campaign. Expands the poison control center grant program to allow the Secretary to award grants for poison control centers to comply with the operational requirements needed to sustain certification. Adds as the purposes for which such grants may be used: (1) to establish and evaluate best practices in the United States for poison prevention, poison control center outreach, and emergency and preparedness programs. (2) to implement standard patient management guidelines for commonly encountered toxic exposures. (3) to develop, support, and enhance technology and capabilities of professional organizations in the field of poison control to collect national poisoning, toxic occurrence, and related public health data. And (4) to develop initiatives to foster the enhanced public health utilization of national poison data. Eliminates matching requirements for such grants. Authorizes appropriations for FY2009-FY2014.
First Responders Support Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to designate in each State at least one employee of the Department of Homeland Security to serve as that State's Homeland Security Liaison Officer and to provide coordination between the Department and State and local first responders. Requires such an Officer to: (1) provide training, information, and education on homeland security for State and local entities. (2) identify homeland security functions in which the Federal role is duplicative of the State or local role and recommend ways to decrease or eliminate inefficiencies. And (3) assist the Department in identifying and implementing State and local homeland security objectives. Requires the Secretary to appoint a Chief Homeland Security Liaison Officer who shall: (1) coordinate the activities of such State Officers. And (2) prepare annual reports on State and local priorities, a needs assessment that identifies duplicative homeland security functions, recommendations regarding program creation, expansion, or elimination to assist State and local entities in carrying out functions under the Department, and proposals to increase the coordination of Department priorities within and between States. Establishes: (1) an Interagency Committee on First Responders that shall ensure coordination among the Federal agencies involved with State, local and community-based law enforcement, fire and rescue operations, and medical and emergency relief services., and (2) an Advisory Council for such Committee.
Drug Abuse Treatment on Demand Assistance Act - Authorizes appropriations for grants for the purpose of increasing the maximum number of individuals to whom public and nonprofit private entities are capable of providing effective treatment for substance abuse, with the goal of ensuring that substance abuse treatment is available for all substance abusers who seek it.
Energy Savings Performance Contracts Amendments Act of 2003 - Amends the National Energy Conservation Policy Act (NECPA) to: (1) repeal the termination dates governing the authority to enter into energy savings performance contracts. (2) allow as an approved benefit ancillary to an energy savings contract or energy savings performance contract providing for energy savings through construction of replacement facilities those savings resulting from reduced operation and maintenance costs at such facilities. And (3) authorize the Secretary of Defense and the heads of other interested Federal agencies to enter into a pilot program for energy savings performance contract investments in non-building energy efficiency improvement projects.
Skills Connection Act - Directs the Secretary of Labor to create a searchable and publicly available database containing a registry of industry-recognized credentials, a skills database, and a jobs bank to enable programs that lead to such credentials to receive priority under: youth workforce investment programs, statewide employment and training programs, career and technical programs, and training programs for Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) workers. Makes funds available from amounts appropriated for each fiscal year for the Workforce Innovation Fund for the costs of carrying out this Act.
Duty Suspension Facilitation Act of 2010 - Directs the International Trade Commission (ITC) to propose to Congress temporary duty suspensions or duty reductions under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS). Prohibits the ITC from recommending any suspension or reduction in duty if: (1) an interested federal agency determines it is not in the US interest and that determination is included in the agency public hearing record. (2) a domestic producer objects to the suspension or reduction, demonstrating that there is domestic production of the article concerned in commercially available quantities. (3) the loss in revenue to the United States from the duty suspension or reduction exceeds $500,000 annually. Or (4) the duty suspension or reduction is for more than three years.
So No Innocent Person Ever Repeats the Sniper Tragedy Act of 2003 - Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to: (1) authorize the Secretary of the Treasury to inspect the inventory and records of a licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer without reasonable cause or warrant not more than four times during any 12-month period. And (2) require such persons to maintain records of disposition of ammunition, except on .22 caliber rimfire ammunition. Provides for enhanced penalties for violations. Subjects violators to revocation or suspension of any applicable license or a fine. Directs the Attorney General to send warning letters to alleged violators, issue notices of revocation, suspension, or imposition of a civil fine, and conduct proceedings, as appropriate. Repeals an exemption from Brady Act requirements involving gun sales to instate residents. Technological Resource to Assist Criminal Enforcement Act - Amends the Brady Act to require a licensed manufacturer or importer to: (1) test fire firearms manufactured or imported by certain licensees. (2) prepare ballistics images of the fired bullet and cartridge casings. (3) make the records available to the Attorney General for entry into an electronic database. And (4) store the fired bullet and cartridge casings as specified. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) conduct mandatory ballistics testing of all firearms in the custody of Federal agencies. And (2) establish, within each Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives field division, a gun crime task force.
Mowa Band of Choctaw Indians Recognition Act - Extends federal recognition and associated services and benefits to the Mowa Band of Choctaw Indians of Alabama. Restores federal rights and privileges abrogated by earlier statutes. Approves and ratifies the cession to the United States of all historical tribal lands of the Band. Extinguishes all claims against the United States, a state or local government, or any other person or entity, by the Band arising subsequent to such cession, and based upon any interest in or right involving the land. Prohibits the Band from using its federal recognition to assert any historical land claim. Transfers all interests in lands held by the Band upon enactment of this Act to the United States, to be held in trust for the benefit of the Band.
This bill amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to require a federal agency leasing space in a building without an Energy Star label to include in its lease provisions requirements that the space's energy efficiency be measured against a nationally-recognized benchmark. The agency must also meet certain energy consumption disclosure requirements. The Department of Energy (DOE) must study and report on: (1) the impact of state and local performance benchmarking and disclosure policies for commercial and multifamily buildings. (2) the impact of programs and systems in which utilities provide aggregated information regarding whole building energy consumption and usage information to owners of multitenant commercial, residential, and mixed-use buildings. And (3) the best practice policy approaches studied in those impact analyses that have resulted in the greatest improvements in building energy efficiency. DOE must maintain a database for storing and making available public energy-related information on commercial and multifamily buildings.
Patient Access and Medicare Protection Act This bill temporarily exempts from certain Medicare payment adjustments wheelchair accessories and seat and back cushions furnished in connection with Group 3 complex rehabilitative power wheelchairs. The Government Accountability Office must study wheelchair accessories and seat and back cushions furnished in connection with Group 3 complex rehabilitative power wheelchairs. The bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSAct) to prohibit specified adjustments to the Medicare fee schedule for certain radiation therapy services in 2017 or 2018. Under current law, the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services (CMS) must periodically identify, review, and make adjustments to potentially misvalued services under Medicare. The bill specifies that certain radiation therapy services shall not be considered as potentially misvalued services for these purposes in 2017 or 2018. For 2017, CMS may exempt categories of eligible professionals from requirements for meaningful use of electronic health records (EHR) technology. Under current law, CMS may, on a case-by-case basis, exempt an eligible professional from certain negative payment adjustments that would otherwise apply due to the professional's failure to comply with those requirements. The bill eliminates funding for the Medicare Improvement Fund. The bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the SSAct to make changes related to the Medicaid Integrity Program (MIP). The bill: (1) specifies that program appropriationsnbsp. May cover the costs of equipment, travel, training, and salaries and benefits. And (2) allows CMS flexibility in determining the number of additional staff necessary to carry out the program. Under current law, CMS may contract with Medicare administrative contractors (MACs), which arenbsp, privatenbsp, insurers that process Medicare claims withinnbsp, specified geographic jurisdictions. The billnbsp. Requires CMS to provide specified incentives for MACs to reduce improper payment error rates within their jurisdictions. The bill establishes criminal penalties of up to 10 years imprisonment and up to $500,000 in fines for illegally purchasing or distributing Medicare, Medicaid, or Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) beneficiary identification or billing privileges. The bill increases the scope of the Medicare-Medicaid Data Match Program , an existing program through which contractors and participatingnbsp, governmental agencies collaboratively analyzenbsp. Medicare and Medicaid billing trends. CMS must establish a plan to encourage states to participate in the Medi-Medi Program. CMS shall implement a plan to allow states to access relevant data on improper or fraudulent payments made under the Medicare program on behalf of individuals dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid.
Construction Reform, Authorization, and Choice Improvement Act of 2015 This bill requires the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to: (1) enter into an agreement with an appropriate non-VA entity to provide full project management services for a super construction project. And (2) use industry standards, standard designs, and best practices in carrying out medical facility construction. A super construction project is one for the construction, alteration, or acquisition of a medical facility involving a total expenditure of more than $100 million . The VA is prohibited from: obligating or expending funds for advance planning or design for any super construction project until 60 days after congressional notification, obligating funds for a major medical facility project or a super construction project by more than 10 of the amount approved by law unless certain congressional committees each approve the obligation, and using bid savings amounts or funds for other than their original purpose before 30 days after notifying such committees unless each committee approves the obligation. The VA must complete a master plan for each VA medical facility meeting specified requirements to inform investment decisions and funding requests over a 10-year period for construction projects at the facility. The 40-mile distance requirement for a veteran to use a non-VA medical facility under the veterans choice program of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 means 40 miles calculated on the basis of distance traveled. The VA may carry out the following major medical facility projects in FY2015 : construction of a community living center, outpatient clinic, renovated domiciliary, and renovation of existing buildings in Canandaigua, New York. Seismic corrections to the mental health and community living center in Long Beach, California, seismic correction of 12 buildings in West Los Angeles, California. And construction of a spinal cord injury building and seismic corrections in San Diego, California. VA authority to make medical services and hospital care available for eligible veterans through agreements with non-VA entities shall now be permanent. The sense of Congress regarding the Veterans Choice Fund is revised.
National Women's Rights History Project Act of 2005 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to designate a vehicular tour route, to be known as the Votes for Women History Trail Route, to link properties in New York State that are historically and thematically associated with the struggle for women's suffrage in the United States. Requires the National Park Service to administer the Trail through the Women's Rights National Historical Park . Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) make annual grants to state historic preservation offices for up to five years for assistance in surveying, evaluating, and nominating women's rights history properties to the National Register of Historic Places. And (2) make matching grants and technical assistance for development of a network of governmental and nongovernmental entities providing interpretive and educational program development of national women's rights history, including historic preservation.
Stop Sweatshops Act - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to make garment industry manufacturers civilly liable for sweatshop conditions maintained by their contractors. Sets forth civil penalties for violation of recordkeeping and payroll accounting requirements.
Directs the Under Secretary for Science and Technology in the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to arrange for an independent study of the effects on human health caused by the use of backscatter x-ray machines at airline checkpoints operated by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Directs the TSA Administrator to ensure that large, readable signs or equivalent electronic displays are placed at the front of airline passenger check points where backscatter advanced imaging technology machines are used for screening to inform airline passengers that they may request undergoing alternative screening procedures.
Humanitarian Assistance Facilitation Act of 2013 - Expresses the sense of Congress that humanitarian organizations acting in good faith and with the appropriate restrictions and controls in place should not be prevented from providing aid to civilian populations before or early on in humanitarian crises, such as in the famine in al-Shabaab-controlled areas of Somalia. Amends the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to permit under specified conditions persons subject to US jurisdiction to enter into transactions with certain sanctioned foreign persons that are customary, necessary, and incidental to the donation or provision of goods or services to prevent or alleviate the suffering of civilian populations. Directs the Secretary of State to establish an Advisory Council on United States Policy Related to Non-Governmental Activities to Prevent and Respond to Human Suffering in Areas Affected By Certain Sanctioned Foreign Persons. Amends the federal criminal code to exclude from the definition of quot, material support or resourcesquot. Engaging in speech or communication with a terrorist organization to prevent or alleviate the suffering of a civilian population, including speech or communication to reduce or eliminate the frequency and severity of violent conflict and reducing its impact on the civilian population.
Promoting Readiness through Early Pell Act of 2016 or the PREP Act of 2016 This bill amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 by allowing a Federal Pell Grant to be awarded to a student who is dually or concurrently enrolled at a public institution of higher education and a secondary school.
Independent Pharmacy Protection Act of 2006 - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require each prescription drug plan contract entered into with a plan sponsor to provide for: (1) the availability of direct deposit payments, (2) an increased dispensing fee for generic drugs. And (3) payments within 10 days for certain pharmacies. Requires the dispensing fee paid to a participating pharmacy for a generic covered part D drug therapeutically equivalent and bioequivalent to a brand name covered part D drug dispensed through the pharmacy to be at least 50 greater than the dispensing fee for the brand name drug. Limits to $10 the dispensing fee paid to a participating pharmacy for a generic covered part D drug. Prohibits a prescription drug plan, subject to exception by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, from decreasing the dispensing fee paid to a participating pharmacy for a brand name drug to an amount less than the dispensing fee paid for it on the date of enactment of this Act. Applies this Act to contracts with a Medicare Advantage organization in the same manner as they apply to those with a prescription drug plan sponsor.
Community Recreation and Conservation Endowment Act of 1997 - Amends the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 to require all escrowed oil and gas revenues and interest received by the United States pursuant to the June 19, 1997, Supreme Court decision in United States v. Alaska to be deposited in a special Treasury account known as the Community Recreation and Conservation Endowment Account. Authorizes financial assistance to States from interest earned on the Account. Requires States to make at least one-half of the average annual apportionment of assistance available to local governments and other qualified recipients. Provides for annual apportionment of such interest among the States and revises the existing apportionment formula. Treats Indian tribes and Alaska Native village corporations collectively as one State for assistance purposes and apportions interest in accordance with a competitive grant program, such that no tribe or corporation receives more than ten percent of the total amount made available to all tribes and corporations. Permits such funds to be expended only for outdoor recreation planning or development. Provides that receipt of such funds shall not prevent a tribe or corporation from receiving grants for other purposes under the regular apportionment of the State in which it is located. Removes a requirement that at least 40 percent of appropriations from the Land and Water Conservation Fund be available for Federal purposes.
Tax Reduction and Economic Growth Act of 1995 - Authorizes the President to issue a declaration that a temporary reduction in the rates of the first income bracket no greater than 3 percent are required if the Director of the Office of Management and Budget finds that: (1) the annual rate of the Gross Domestic Product is less than 1.5 percent. And (2) the adjusted national unemployment rate is higher than 6.5 percent.
Iran Nonproliferation Amendments Act of 2005 - Amends the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 to state that the definition of extraordinary payments in connection with the International Space Station does not mean payments in cash or in kind made or to be made by the US government prior to January 1, 2012, for work to be performed or services to be rendered prior to that date necessary to meet US obligations under the Agreement Concerning Cooperation on the Civil International Space Station, with annex, signed at Washington January 29, 1998, and entered into force March 27, 2001, or any protocol, agreement, memorandum of understanding, or contract related thereto. Prohibits any US agency from making extraordinary payments and any other payments in connection with the International Space Station to a foreign person subject to specified measures under such Act or Executive Order No. 12938. Directs the President to submit to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on International Relations of the House of Representatives a report that identifies each Russian entity or person to whom the United States has, since the date of enactment of this Act, made a cash or in-kind payment under the Agreement. Requires such report to include: (1) the purpose of each payment. And (2) with respect to each such payment, an assessment that the payment was not prejudicial to preventing the proliferation of ballistic or cruise missile systems in Iran and other countries that have supported acts of international terrorism. Applies the provisions of such Act to: (1) Syria with respect to transfers on or after January 1, 2005. And (2) transfers to or from such countries . Redefines foreign person or person to include any foreign government or government entity . Retitles the Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2002 as the Iran and Syria Nonproliferation Act.
Establishes the World War I Centennial Commission to: (1) plan, develop, and execute programs, projects, and activities to commemorate the centennial of World War I. (2) encourage private organizations and state and local governments to organize and participate in such activities, (3) facilitate and coordinate such activities throughout the United States. (4) serve as a clearinghouse for the collection and dissemination of information about centennial events and plans. And (5) develop commemoration recommendations for Congress and the President. Designates: (1) the Liberty Memorial of Kansas City in Kansas City, Missouri, as the National World War I Museum and Memorial. And (2) the District of Columbia War Memorial in Washington, D. C. as the District of Columbia and National World War I Memorial (Memorial). Authorizes the World War I Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work at the Memorial Site.
Protecting Student Athletes from Concussions Act of 2010 - Requires each state educational agency, in order to be eligible to receive funds under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 in FY2013 or subsequent fiscal years, to issue regulations establishing the following minimum requirements for the prevention and treatment of concussions. Requires each local educational agency in the state to develop and implement a standard plan for concussion safety and management that includes: (1) the education of students, parents, and school personnel about concussions, (2) supports for students recovering from a concussion. And (3) best practices designed to ensure the uniformity of safety standards, treatment, and management. Requires each public elementary and secondary school to post on school grounds and make publicly available on the school website information on concussions, including information on risks, responses, symptoms, and effects. Requires public school personnel who suspect that a student has sustained a concussion during a school-sponsored activity to: (1) remove the student from the activity and prohibit such student from participating in school athletic activities until the student submits a written release from a health care professional. And (2) report to the student's parent or guardian regarding such injury and the treatment provided. Prohibits a student who has sustained a concussion in a school-sponsored athletic activity from resuming participation in school-sponsored athletic or academic activities until the school receives a written release from a health care professional that: (1) states that the student is capable of resuming participation. And (2) may require the student to follow a plan designed to aid such individual in recovering and resuming participation in a manner that is coordinated with periods of cognitive and physical rest, and that reintroduces cognitive and physical demands on a progressive basis, based on the student's symptoms.
Pesticide Maintenance Fees Authorization Act - Amends the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, with respect to the pesticide registration maintenance fee system, to: (1) make uniform the amount of the annual fee for each registration. (2) set maximum amounts payable by a registrant and an increased aggregate amount of collected fees for FY 2002 through 2006, (3) expand the definition of a small business. And (4) extend the authority to collect such fees and the prohibition on levy of fees other than those specified in the Act's fee provisions. Extends the requirement that the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency use maintenance fees to ensure expedited processing of similar applications and adds a requirement that the fees be used to review inert ingredients. Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to prohibit the Administrator, through FY 2006, from promulgating regulations addressing pesticide tolerance processing fees .
Saving America's Pollinators Act of 2015 This bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to suspend the registration of members of the nitro group of neonicotinoid insecticides that are registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) for use in seed treatment, soil application, or foliar treatment on bee-attractive plants, trees, and cereals until the EPA determines that the insecticides will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on pollinators. The determination must be based on: an evaluation of the published and peer-reviewed scientific evidence on whether the use or uses of those neonicotinoids cause unreasonable adverse effects on pollinators, including native bees, honeybees, birds, bats, and other species of beneficial insects. And a completed field study that meets the criteria required by the EPA and evaluates residues, chronic low-dose exposure, and cumulative effects of multiple chemical exposures. The EPA may not issue new registrations of the neonicotinoid pesticides for any seed treatment, soil application, and foliar treatment on bee-attractive plants, trees, and cereals under FIFRA until it has made the determination with respect to the insecticide. For purposes of protecting and ensuring the long-term viability of native bees and other pollinators, the Department of the Interior must: (1) regularly monitor the health and population status of native bees, (2) identify the scope and likely causes of unusual native bee mortality, and (3) submit to Congress and make public an annual report on the health and population status of native bees.
Requires a participant to submit a resource security plan or a livestock nutrient management plan. Sets forth three classes of resource security plan conservation practices, and bases rental payments upon classes implemented by the participant. Bases livestock nutrient management plan payments on the price and number of livestock covered by the contract.
Union Integrity Act Amends the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959 to prescribe whistleblower protections that prohibit a labor organization from discriminating against any of its employees who has: (1) provided information to the labor organization, the Department of Labor, or any other state, local, or federal government authority or law enforcement agency regarding any violation of the Act or any Department or National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) order. (2) testified in any Department or NLRB administrative or enforcement proceeding, (3) filed or instituted any such proceeding. Or (4) refused to perform an assigned task that the employee reasonably believed to be in violation of any law, order, or prohibition enforced by the Department or the NLRB. Prescribes procedures for filing and processing complaints for violations of this Act. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to: (1) limit employees to remove elected or appointed union officials through a democratic election. Or (2) preempt a state or local government from providing additional protections to such employees who allege a violation, provided such protections do not limit the ability of those employees to remove such officials through a democratic ballot.
States that such activities may include interchange between such appointees and individuals who: (1) held similar leadership roles in prior administrations. (2) are department or agency experts from the Office of Management and Budget or a department or agency Office of Inspector General. Or (3) are relevant staff from the General Accounting Office. Permits such activities also to include training in: (1) records management, including training on the separation of Presidential records and personal records to comply with certain requirements. And (2) human resources management and performance-based management. Requires the Administrator to develop a transition directory for such activities, which compile Federal publications and materials with supplementary materials developed by the Administrator that provide information on the officers, organization, and statutory and administrative authorities, functions, duties, responsibilities, and mission of each department and agency. Requires the Administrator also to consult with any candidate for President or Vice President to develop a systems architecture plan for the candidate's computer and communications systems to coordinate a transition to Federal systems, if the candidate is elected. Directs the Office of Government Ethics to study and report to specified congressional committees on improvements to the mandatory financial disclosure process under the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 for presidential nominees. Authorizes appropriations.
Safe, Efficient, Coordinated, Unified, Revitalized, Enhanced Visa Waiver Act - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish an electronic system that requires aliens seeking entry to the United States under the visa waiver program (VWP) to submit biographical information prior to embarkation. Requires such system to: (1) make electronic determinations of eligibility for admission within 30 minutes. (2) require carriers and other corporations providing transportation to inquire electronically, prior to embarkation, whether the alien has been determined eligible for admission and to respond to such inquiries within 90 seconds. And (3) be deployed as soon as possible. Requires the Secretary: (1) to charge a fee to VWP aliens that ensures the recovery of the full costs of establishing and operating the system. And (2) in developing the system, to consult with and allow for review by a private sector group consisting of experts in travel, tourism, privacy, national security, or computer security issues. Amends the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act to extend by one year: (1) the deadline for installing equipment and software at US ports of entry to allow biometric comparison and authentication of machine-readable passports issued by VWP countries. And (2) the deadline for VWP aliens to present such passports. Authorizes the Secretary to grant up to two extensions of the new deadlines where the VWP country is making substantial progress toward issuing machine-readable, tamper-resistant passports that incorporate biometric and document authentication identifiers.
Spending Control Act of 2004 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to establish for FY 2005 through 2009 unspecified discretionary spending limits for the general purpose discretionary category in new budget authority and outlays. Provides that, in any of such fiscal years, discretionary advance appropriations provided in appropriation Acts in excess of an unspecified amount shall be counted against the discretionary spending limits for the fiscal year for which the appropriation Act containing the advance appropriation is enacted. Extends PAY-AS-YOU-GO requirements through FY 2009 to provide for an offsetting sequestration for direct spending legislation that is enacted before October 1, 2009, that causes a net increase in direct spending . Modifies the formula used to calculate the amount of direct spending increase to exclude receipts. Provides that, if supplemental appropriations for discretionary accounts are enacted for contingency operations related to the global war on terrorism that the President designates and Congress so designates in statute, the adjustment shall be the total of such appropriations in discretionary accounts so designated and the outlays flowing in all fiscal years from them. States that the general purpose discretionary category shall consist of accounts designated in the joint explanatory statement of managers accompanying the conference report on this Act. Makes revisions to the baseline calculation for discretionary appropriations to prohibit the assumption beyond the fiscal year for which they have been enacted of any new budget resources designated by the President and by Congress in statute for emergency appropriations or for supplemental appropriations for contingency operations related to global war on terrorism. Requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) cost estimates on direct spending or receipts legislation to exclude any amount resulting from extending provisions in the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 or in the Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 relating to certain individual tax rate reductions, tax benefits to children, and marriage penalty relief. Requires the estimates set forth in the discretionary sequestration preview reports and such final reports issued by OMB and the Congressional Budget Office to include the current year and each subsequent year through FY 2009. Extends: (1) certain budget enforcement requirements through FY 2009, and (2) PAY-AS-YOU-GO requirements through FY 2013.
Sets forth restrictions on retroactive employment tax reclassifications, including safe harbor requirements. Provides that the statute of limitations on assessment of employment taxes shall run beginning on the date certain information returns are filed.
Notch Fairness Act of 1998 - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to revise the formula for the computation of minimum old age insurance benefits for individuals who reached age 65 in or after 1979 and to whom applies the 15-year transition period for the changes in benefit computation rules enacted in the Social Security Amendments of 1977. Sets forth a schedule of additional benefit increases for such beneficiaries , with percentages declining from 55 percent to five percent and keyed to the year an individual became eligible for such benefits between 1979 and 1988. Allows such beneficiaries, in the alternative, to receive lump sum payments over four years totaling $5,000. Provides that amounts offset by this Act shall not be counted as direct spending for purposes of the budgetary limits provided in the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 .
Expand and Rebuild America's Schools Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited credit to eligible taxpayers holding school construction bonds. Defines such bonds. Establishes a private business contribution requirement for bond issuers. Defines as eligible taxpayers certain banks, insurance companies, and corporations. Sets a national school construction bond limit.
John F. Kennedy Center Parking Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends the John F. Kennedy Center Act to authorize the Board of Trustees for the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, in accordance with a specified master site plan, to design and construct: (1) parking garage additions at the north and south ends of the Center. And (2) site improvements and modifications. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for the design and construction of such garage additions or for the following activities that the Board specifically designates for financing through non-appropriated fund sources: (1) the above site improvements and modifications. And (2) acquiring large screen format equipment for an interpretive theater or for the production of an interpretive film. Requires the Board to: (1) ensure that safe and convenient Center site access is provided for pedestrians and vehicles. And (2) develop plans and carry out projects for access improvements. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to award a grant to New Mexico for the Federal share of the costs of design, construction, furnishing, and equipping of the Center for the Performing Arts within the New Mexico Hispanic Cultural Center. Requires a Federal share of 50 percent of project costs. Requires the non-Federal share to include any contributions already received in support of the design and construction of Phase I or II of the Center complex. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to award a grant to Florida for the Federal share of the costs of design, construction, furnishing, and equipping of the Center for Historically Black Heritage at Florida AM University. Requires a Federal share of 50 percent of project costs. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to make a grant to Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, for the Federal share of the costs of the relocation and expansion of the Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology at the University. Requires a Federal share of 20 percent of project costs. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to award a grant to Juniata College for the construction of environmental research facilities and structures at Raystown Lake, Pennsylvania. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to design, construct, furnish, and equip a historical, cultural, and paleontological interpretive center and museum at Fort Peck Dam, Montana. Authorizes appropriations.
SOAR to Health and Wellness Act of 2016 This bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a pilot program, to be known as Stop, Observe, Ask, and Respond to Health and Wellness Training , to train health care providers and other related providers to: identify potential human trafficking victims, work with law enforcement to report and facilitate communication with such victims, refer victims to social or victims service agencies or organizations, provide such victims with coordinated care tailored to their circumstances, and consider integrating this training with existing training programs. The pilot program must include the functions of the training program with the same name that was operating before this bill's enactment and the following initiatives: engaging stakeholders to develop a flexible training module, supporting training in diverse health care sites, providing technical assistance to health education programs, developing a strategy to incentivize the use of training materials developed under this bill and the implementation of a nationwide health care protocol, and developing a methodology for collecting and reporting data on the number of human trafficking victims served in health care settings or other related provider settings. The pilot program is authorized through FY2022. HHS must report on the number of facilities operating under the pilot program, the number of providers trained through the pilot program, and these numbers for the program operating before the pilot program.
Higher Education Savings Plan Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exempt distributions from a higher education expenses annuity contract from the ten-percent penalty on premature distributions from annuity contracts. Excludes the premium to purchase such a contract from gift tax liability.
Small Lands Tracts Conveyance Act - Requires the Director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for a state or the Regional Forester to select an eligible federal lands parcel for conveyance: (1) in response to a request by an owner of non-federal land that shares one or more boundaries with such parcel, or (2) upon the recommendation of the BLM District Office or System unit that exercises administration over such parcel. Bars a conveyed eligible parcel from exceeding 160 acres unless the Director or Regional Forester concerned approves a request for additional acreage. Permits acquisition by a person of only one eligible parcel a year, subject to an exception. Instructs the Director or Regional Forester concerned, as consideration for the sale of an eligible parcel, to require a cash payment in an amount equal to not less than the fair market value of such parcel, including the mineral estate, being conveyed. Requires the Director or the Regional Forester concerned to: (1) pay 50 of the consideration received for the sale of an eligible parcel to the county government in which such parcel is located, and (2) deposit the remaining amount in the general Treasury fund. Requires the purchaser of an eligible federal lands parcel under this Act to cover the costs to be incurred, or to reimburse the Director or Regional Forester concerned for the costs incurred, in carrying out the conveyance.
Directs the Secretary of Transportation to make appropriate arrangements with the Transportation Research Board of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine, and the National Research Council to study the cost and impact of rerouting freight rail traffic of hazardous material to avoid its transportation through urban areas.
Health Care Fraud and Abuse Advisory Opinion Act of 1994 - Amends title XI of the Social Security Act (SSA) to give the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority to issue binding advisory opinions addressing certain matters, such as what constitutes prohibited remuneration or an inducement to reduce or limit Medicare or Medicaid services, and whether an arrangement or activity, actual or proposed, violates any other SSA provisions. Amends SSA title XVIII (Medicare) to give the Secretary the authority to issue binding advisory opinions on whether an arrangement or proposed arrangement will result in a prohibited physician referral. Requires the Secretary to issue regulations establishing systems for the issuance of the advisory opinions above.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on July 3, 2014. TSA Office of Inspection Accountability Act of 2014 - Directs the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to: (1) analyze the data and methods that the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security uses to identify Transportation Security Administration (TSA) law enforcement officer and criminal investigators. And (2) provide relevant findings to the Assistant Secretary, including regarding whether the data and methods are adequate and valid. Prohibits TSA from hiring any new employee to work in its Office of Inspection if the Inspector General finds that such data and methods are inadequate or invalid, until: (1) the Assistant Secretary makes a certification to the House Committee on Homeland Security and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation that only TSA employees who meet such requirements are classified as criminal investigators and are receiving premium pay and other benefits associated with such classification. And (2) the Inspector General submits a finding that the Assistant Secretary utilized adequate and valid data and methods to make such certification. Directs the Assistant Secretary to: (1) reclassify criminal investigator positions in the Office of Inspection as noncriminal investigator positions or non-law enforcement positions if the individuals in those positions do not, or are not expected to, spend an average of at least 50 of their time performing criminal investigative duties. And (2) estimate the total long-term cost savings to the federal government resulting from such reclassification and provide such estimate to such committees. Requires such estimate to identify savings associated with the positions reclassified, including savings from: law enforcement training, early retirement benefits, law enforcement availability pay, weapons, vehicles, and communications devices. Directs the Assistant Secretary to submit to such committees: (1) any materials in the possession or control of DHS associated with the Office of Inspection's review of the use of a federal firearms license by Federal Air Marshal Service officials to obtain discounted or free firearms for personal use. And (2) information on specific actions that will be taken to prevent Service officials from using a federal firearms license, or exploiting the Service's relationships with private vendors, to obtain discounted or free firearms for personal use.
Oklahoma City Victims Compensation Act - Establishes a program to provide compensation to any individual who was physically injured or killed as a result of the bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, on April 19, 1995. Directs the Attorney General, acting through the Special Master appointed under the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001, to administer the program, requiring determinations of claims within 120 days and payment within 20 days of determination. States that such determinations are final and not subject to judicial review. Limits claims to one per injured person or decedent and excludes claimants from pursuing civil action for damages, as specified. Grants the United States the right of subrogation with respect to any claim paid by the United States under this Act.
Fort Stanton and Rio Bonito Corridor Vegetation Management Act - Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, in managing land within Fort Stanton and the Rio Bonito Corridor that is under the Secretary's jurisdiction, to solicit competitive bids for and enter into vegetation sales contracts for the purpose of using livestock grazing as a vegetation management tool. Ratifies any such contracts entered into with respect to the land before the date of this Act's enactment. Requires management of Fort Stanton and the Rio Bonito Corridor to be consistent with any applicable land and resource management plan under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976. Directs that, of the proceeds of such vegetation sales contracts: (1) 12.5 percent be paid to the State of New Mexico for distribution to Lincoln County, New Mexico, for purposes authorized by the Act of June 28, 1934. (2) 12.5 percent be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury. And (3) 75 percent be deposited in a special Treasury account for use in managing Fort Stanton and the Rio Bonito Corridor and to achieve the management goals and prescriptions identified in applicable resource management plans for the Rio Bonito acquired lands and the Fort Stanton area of critical environmental concern, but not for land acquisition.
Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct studies on: (1) the economic and trade impact of exports of food products from cloned animals. (2) Department of Agriculture programs to monitor products from cloned animals in the food supply. (3) the health effects and costs attributable to milk from cloned animals in the food supply. And (4) the safety of food products derived from cloned animals.
Sets forth provisions requiring maximum public participation in, and advance notice of, proposed rulemaking with respect to such regulations.
Cardiac Arrest Survival Act of 2015 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to expand immunity from civil liability related to automated external defibrillator devices (AEDs), including by giving immunity to: (1) a person who owns, occupies, or manages the premises from which an AED is taken or at which an AED is used. And (2) the owner of an AED for any harm resulting from the use of the AED, unless the harm was caused by the failure of the owner to properly maintain the AED. This immunity applies regardless of whether: (1) the AED is marked with cautionary signage or registered with any government. Or (2) the person who used the AED complied with signage, had received training on use of the AED, or was assisted or supervised, including by a licensed physician.
Outer Continental Shelf Permit Processing Coordination Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish three regional joint outer Continental Shelf (OCS) lease and permit processing coordination offices, one for the Alaska region of the OCS, one for the Atlantic region, and one for the Pacific region.
American Heroes Act - Authorizes each State to provide one statue of an individual representing that State to be displayed in the Capitol Visitor Center. Specifies criteria for such statues. Requires the Clerk of the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate to assign jointly to one of their employees the post of the American Hero Administrator to prepare statue guidelines. Requires: (1) a State to establish an American Hero Commission to select the individual to represent that State. And (2) the Architect of the Capitol to procure and install a statue honoring the passengers of United Airlines flight number 93 who died on September 11, 2001, for their heroic role in protecting Washington, D. C. from attack.
Daniel Faulkner Law Enforcement Officers and Judges Protection Act of 2007 - Amends the federal criminal code to: (1) impose mandatory minimum prison terms for homicide, manslaughter, and kidnapping of federal judges and law enforcement officers. (2) expand the penalties for assaulting or interfering with federal officers and employees and for assaults against federal law enforcement officers and judges. (3) impose mandatory minimum prison terms for retaliating against a federal judge or law enforcement officer on account of the performance of official duties by murdering, kidnapping, assaulting, or threatening a family member of such judge or officer. And (4) authorize federal judges, US attorneys, and Justice Department employees to carry firearms. Places limits on the award of civil damages and attorney's fees against judicial officers for injuries incurred by an individual during the commission of a felony or crime of violence. Amends the federal judicial code to place limits on habeas corpus petitions for review of a state court conviction for murder of a public safety officer or judge engaged in the performance of official duties.
United States Army Commemorative Coin Act of 2008 - Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and half dollar clad coins as numismatic items emblematic of the traditions, history, and heritage of the US Army, and its role in American society from the Colonial period to today. Requires the design for such coins to contain motifs that honor specifically the American soldier of both today and yesterday, in wartime and in peace, consistent with the traditions and heritage of the US Army, the mission and goals of the National Museum of the US Army, and the missions and goals of the Army Historical Foundation. Restricts coin issuance to the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2011. Requires all surcharges from coin sales to be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Foundation to help finance the National Museum of the US Army.
Unemployment Compensation, Reemployment, and Fairness Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow States to pay unemployment benefits to eligible individuals while they participate in qualified self-employment training programs. Amends the Social Security Act to require the State agency administering unemployment compensation to provide: (1) early reemployment review of unemployed workers. (2) technical and training program staff to assist with reemployment services. And (3) followup reevaluation and assistance to individuals participating in reemployment activities. Requires such agency to provide: (1) reemployment review information to other State employment and training program staff. And (2) job search and placement services, counseling, testing, occupational and labor market information, assessment, and referral to employers. Allows such agency to provide reemployment reviews and services for workers who have received notice of permanent layoff or impending layoff, or workers in occupations experiencing limited demand due to technological change, impact of imports, or plant closures. Amends the Social Security Act to require States to grant administrative hearings for employers with respect to their liability for paying unemployment taxes. Outlines the Secretary of Labor's administrative responsibilities under this Act.
Homeowners Empowerment and Protection Act of 1995 - Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to establish uniform Federal agency procedures with respect to application and homeowner notice requirements for the conduct of activities that generate pollutants or other adverse impacts with the potential to reduce private home values. Directs each agency to: (1) require any person filing an application to conduct property impacting activity to provide affected homeowners with written notice, (2) provide a toll-free telephone number for homeowner response. And (3) investigate the proposed activity's impact on home values. Creates a homeowner right of action, including class action authority, for certain home value reductions.
Directs the Secretary of Energy to develop and implement strategic plans for the energy development program consistent with title V of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Act of 1978. Requires the Secretary to report to Congress respecting: (1) such plans. And (2) expanding specified cooperative activities into an international cooperative effort which shall include an analysis of an Alternative Energy Corps to encourage technically trained volunteers to live and work in developing countries.
Commission on Homeland Security Act - Establishes a Commission on Homeland Security to study procedures to protect the security of the United States, including: (1) the efficiency and effectiveness with which Federal departments and agencies perform their security missions. (2) the adequacy of Federal personnel resources to perform such missions. (3) the adequacy and effectiveness of Federal controls over financial and information systems. (4) the accuracy, reliability, and security of personal identification information and systems used by the Federal Government under existing law. (5) how effectively Federal departments and agencies are organized to perform security missions. And (6) the effectiveness of relationships among, and activities of, the Government, the States, and municipalities to protect security.
Medicare Academic Anesthesiology and CRNA Payment Improvement Act of 2006 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) part B of the Social Security Act to set forth a special payment rule for teaching anesthesiologists (TAs) and teaching certified registered nurse anesthetists (CRNAs). Requires payment of 100 of the fee schedule amount otherwise applicable for anesthesia services personally performed by the TA alone when the TA is training physician residents or student nurse anesthetists in a single anesthesia case or two concurrent anesthesia cases, if: (1) the TA is present during all critical or key portions of the anesthesia service or case involved. And (2) either the TA or an anesthesiologist or a CRNA with whom the TA has made special arrangements is immediately available to furnish anesthesia services during the entire case. States that this special payment rule shall not apply in the case of physician services furnished by an anesthesiologist who medically directs a CRNA involved in the training of student nurse anesthetists in a single anesthesia case or two concurrent anesthesia cases. Applies to a CRNA medically directed or medically supervised by a physician in the performance of anesthesia services the current fee schedule amount of one-half of the amount for a physician's medical direction of the performance of such services, regardless of whether or not the CRNA is involved in the training of student nurse anesthetists in a single case or two concurrent cases. Requires payment, however, of 100 of the fee schedule amount otherwise applicable for anesthesia services personally performed by a teaching CRNA alone when the teaching CRNA is not medically directed but is involved in the training of student nurse anesthetists in a single anesthesia case or two concurrent anesthesia cases, if: (1) the teaching CRNA is present during all critical or key portions of the anesthesia service or case involved. And (2) the teaching CRNA is immediately available to furnish anesthesia services during the entire case.
Provides for appointment of a US Delegation to the Intellectual Property Assembly of the Americas, which shall meet annually with representative parliamentary groups from other countries in the Americas to: (1) discuss common problems and interests in intellectual and industrial property. And (2) promote national and multilateral measures that may further common interests in such property. Authorizes appropriations.
Technology and Research Accelerating National Security and Future Economic Resiliency Act of 2013 or the TRANSFER Act of 2013 - Amends the Small Business Act to revise the requirement that the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) use funds for a Proof of Concept Partnership pilot program to accelerate the creation of small businesses and the commercialization of research innovations made by certain institutions. Directs the head of each covered federal agency required to establish a small business technology transfer (STTR) program to establish an Innovative Approaches to Technology Transfer Grant Program to make grants to institutions of higher education, technology transfer organizations that facilitate the commercialization of technologies developed by one or more of the institutions, federal laboratories, public or private nonprofit entities, or a consortium of any of these entities in order to improve or accelerate the commercialization of high quality and commercially viable federally funded research and technology by small businesses. Outlines activities eligible for funding, application requirements, and award procedures and amounts. Requires grant recipients to assemble an oversight board to establish award programs for individual projects and evaluate project applications. Prescribes the percentage of each covered agency's extramural budget for research, or research development required to be expended on such Program for FY2015-FY2017. Directs each covered agency to develop a Program evaluation plan to collect data to identify outcomes resulting from the transfer of technology under its Program. Requires the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to include information on each covered agency's Program on the public database of small businesses participating in STTR or Small Business Innovation Research programs.
Railroad Safety Improvement Act of 2005 - Amends federal transportation law to direct the Secretary of Transportation to establish an automated video image analysis pilot program in states with the highest rates of accidents at highway-rail grade crossings to record motorist violations at crossings equipped with automatic warning devices. Requires the Secretary to submit to Congress a plan to eliminate highway-rail grade crossings, with priority given to crossings where the number of accidents are high or there is insufficient or outdated protective equipment. Directs the Secretary to: (1) review the safety of all public railway-highway grade crossings in the United States. And (2) compile and submit to Congress, based on such review, a list of the 5,000 railway-highway grade crossings most in need of safety improvements. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to states to make necessary improvements to crossings identified for elimination and improvement. Requires the Secretary, in awarding such grants, to: (1) give priority to projects to install automated warning systems at crossings in states with the highest number of accidents. And (2) strive to reduce the number of crossings without automated warning systems by not less than 50. Directs the Secretary to: (1) analyze all laws for preventing trespassing and vandalism on railroad property. And (2) develop model legislation providing for civil and criminal penalties for individuals who violate grade crossing signs, signals, or gates. Requires the Secretary to inspect annually at least 2 of all highway-rail grade crossings in the 10 states with the highest rates of collisions at such crossings. Requires the Secretary to investigate, and report to Congress, all fatal accidents in the United States that occur on or after enactment of this Act.
Overtime Reform and Review Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA) with respect to exemptions from minimum wage and maximum hour requirements for executive, administrative, professional and outside sales employees to increase over a five-year period the salary threshold for such exemptions, beginning on December 1, 2016, with a subsequent increase on December 1, 2018, and each December 1 through 2021. The Government Accountability Office shall conduct, and submit to Congress, a study of the implementation of the 2016 initial salary threshold. The rule submitted by the Department of Labor entitled quot. Defining and Delimiting the Exemptions for Executive, Administrative, Professional, Outside Sales and Computer Employeesquot. Shall cease to have any force or effect. This bill amends the FLSA, with respect to requirements for updating the salary threshold, to direct Labor, for any change to the salary threshold, to: (1) propose a specific and enumerated rate of compensation required for an employee to be exempt from minimum wage and maximum hour requirements, and (2) issue a rule through notice and comment rulemaking.
Amends the Homeland Security Act to repeal the transfer of agricultural import and entry inspection functions from the Department of Agriculture to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to establish within the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service the international agricultural inspection program to carry out import and entry agricultural inspections.
National Guard and Reserve Education Act of 2004 - Increases the monthly rate of educational assistance for members of the Selected Reserve who pursue full-time studies. Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to prescribe by regulation the rate of assistance for less than full-time studies. Establishes an educational assistance benefit for reservists and National Guard members who, on or after September 11, 2001, serve at least 180 days within a five-year period of active duty in a contingency operation. Authorizes such persons to use their educational assistance entitlement during a 14-year period beginning on the last day of duty. Authorizes members of the Selected Reserve who are entitled to retired pay and basic educational assistance to transfer a portion of their educational entitlement to eligible dependents. Requires the Secretary to report on such transfers in the Secretary's annual report to Congress.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Amendments of 1993 - Amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to authorize the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to request a head of a Federal agency, department, or unit to appear before the Commission and explain the reason for failing to submit an equal employment opportunity plan. Directs the Commission, after an opportunity for a hearing, to order submission of a plan. Requires the Commission to enforce compliance with such order. Authorizes the Commission to initiate disciplinary action, including the withholding of pay, against any officer or employee responsible for failure to comply with an order. States that equal employment opportunity plans shall include the numerical employment goals established by an agency in its minority recruitment program and that each agency should establish numerical employment goals for the purpose of complying with affirmative action plans.
Puget Sound Regional Shellfish Settlement Act of 2006 - Approves, ratifies, and confirms the Settlement Agreement entered into by and between specified Indian tribes in the region of Puget Sound, Washington, commercial shellfish growers, the state of Washington, and the United States to resolve certain disputes regarding implementation of tribal treaty rights to take shellfish from certain covered tidelands owned, leased or otherwise subject to harvest by the growers. Establishes in the Treasury the Puget Sound Regional Shellfish Settlement Trust Fund and the Puget Sound Regional Shellfish Settlement Special Holding Account. Declares that the Secretary of the Interior shall not be accountable for nor incur any liability for the collection, deposit, management, or nonpayment of a specified state of Washington payment to the tribes pursuant to the Settlement Agreement. Declares that all right of any other tribe, within 20 years after the deposit of funds in the Special Holding Account, to bring an action to enforce or exercise its treaty rights to take shellfish from public and private tidelands in Washington, including from some lands owned, leased, or otherwise subject to harvest by any and all commercial growers, shall be determined in accordance with the decisions of federal courts in United States v. Washington. Provides that if any payment by the United States is not paid in the amount or manner specified by this Act, or is not paid within six months after the date specified by the Settlement Agreement, such failure shall give rise to a cause of action by the tribes against the United States. Authorizes the tribes to bring such an action in the US Court of Federal Claims.
Defines such standards as: (1) a regulatory review period from application submission to application approval exceeding 60 months. (2) clear and convincing evidence by the owner of record of the patent that the patent owner acted with due diligence. And (3) absence of any detriment by the granting of patent restoration to the public interest and the interest of fairness. Requires subtraction from the total amount of the restoration term of any time during the regulatory review period during which the Commissioner finds that the applicant for patent term restoration did not act with due diligence. Limits a restoration period, together with any extension period, and subject to other specified restrictions and adjustments, to five years. Requires restoration term applications to be filed within 90 days after enactment of this Act. Specifies factors of public interest and fairness the Commissioner shall consider when making a term restoration determination, including whether: (1) grant of the application would disserve society's interest in the availability of innovative drugs at competitive prices. Or (2) denial of the application would disserve society's interest in encouraging and rewarding pharmaceutical research and innovation. Provides for: (1) claim determination procedure. (2) a one-year extension of the patent term pending final disposition. And (3) appeal of the Commissioner's determinations to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit only. Entitles to compensation by the patent owner of any person who has submitted an new drug application under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for a drug product covered by a patent for which a patent term was restored under this Act, if such application has been found by the Food and Drug Administration on or before enactment of this Act to be sufficiently complete to permit substantive review. Sets the amount of compensation at: (1) $2 million. Or (2) $1 million for any holder of a Type II Drug Master File that has permitted a reference to its File to be made in such application. Limits a patent owner's overall liability to: (1) $10 million to persons submitting new drug applications. Or (2) $5 million to holders of Type II Drug Master Files. Requires the Commissioner to report to Congress: (1) an evaluation of the patent term restoration review procedure established by this Act. And (2) a recommendation whether Congress should consider establishing such a patent term review procedure for patents not covered by this Act. Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to limit a certain required certification in an application for an approved product claimed in a patent whose term has been restored, to any patent that claims an active ingredient, including any salt or ester of the active ingredient, of the approved product, alone or in combination with another active ingredient .
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House of Representatives on June 11, 2015. DHS FOIA Efficiency Act of 2015 Directs the Chief FOIA Officer of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): within 90 days after enactment of this Act, to issue an updated regulation implementing the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and to identify the total annual implementation costs. To develop guidance on reporting standards related to costs of processing FOIA requests. Within 120 days after enactment of this Act, to identify unnecessary and duplicative actions taken by DHS in processing such requests, to eliminate such actions within 12 months after identifying them. And within 90 days after enactment of this Act, to develop a plan to automate the processing of requests and to issue guidance to the relevant DHS components regarding the goal of reducing the backlog in processing requests by 50 between FY2015 and FY2018. Requires the regulation implementing FOIA to include: (1) public guidance on procedures to be followed when making requests for DHS rules, opinions, orders, records, or proceedings. (2) updated guidance to the DHS components for processing such requests, which may include information on automated processing. And (3) detailed information on fees and costs associated with, and on the appeals process for, requests. Directs the Chief FOIA Officer to include: (1) in each semiannual privacy report submitted under the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, the total costs to DHS of meeting FOIA requirements and assessments of progress made toward meeting backlog goals, of whether DHS has adequate staffing and other resources to address such goals, and of progress made toward automating the processing of requests. And (2) in the second semiannual privacy report for FY2016, a description of any cost savings identified from, and the plan developed for, automating the processing of requests. Directs the Chief FOIA Officer to provide such plan, upon completion, to DHS components and seek written feedback regarding the extent to which each component will adopt the plan, the associated costs, and the projected time lines.
Afghanistan Suspension and Debarment Reform Act - Amend the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 to add to the powers of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction , who is required to conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the treatment, handling, and expenditure of funds appropriated by the US government, and of the programs, operations, and contracts carried out using such funds in Afghanistan, in order to prevent and detect waste, fraud, and abuse. Empowers the Inspector General to refer to the lead agency a potential covered case for suspension or debarment of a person from procurement or nonprocurement activities of the federal government. Defines a quot, covered casequot. As one involving a person that is an Afghan national or foreign national or foreign company operating in Afghanistan that has received in the past, is receiving, or may receive in the future, funds from any covered prime contract or subcontract. Requires the Inspector General to notify the Interagency Committee on Debarment and Suspension and Congress if such a referral is made. Requires the lead agency, after the referral of such a suspension or debarment case, to accept or decline the case. Requires the Interagency Committee, if the lead agency declines to accept a suspension or debarment case, or fails to respond to the referral, to determine whether the Inspector General shall act as the lead agency. Requires the lead agency, on the other hand, if it accepts a suspension or debarment case, to either suspend or debar the person that is the subject of the case or decline. Authorizes the Inspector General , if the Interagency Committee determines that the Inspector General may act as lead agency, to suspend or debar the person from federal procurement or nonprocurement activities. Allows the Inspector General , when exercising such authority, to grant an exception permitting a person otherwise debarred or suspended to submit an offer for or be awarded a particular contract, grant, or procurement or nonprocurement activity. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO), after the termination of the Office of Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, to study the Inspector General authority and the process for determining a lead agency in a suspension or debarment case.
Redefines basic pay to include any amounts received as physicians comparability allowances as part of basic pay for Federal employee retirement purposes. Amends provisions relating to the computation of an annuity under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) to prohibit any part of such an allowance from being treated as basic pay unless, before the date of the separation on which entitlement to annuity is based, the separating individual has completed at least 15 years of service as a Government physician. Requires, if such condition is met, that any amounts received by the individual as such an allowance shall be treated as basic pay, but only to the extent that such amounts are attributable to service performed on or after the enactment of this Act, and only to the extent of the percentage allowable as specified by this Act. Requires that 100 percent of all amounts received as such an allowance, to the extent attributable to service performed on or after enactment, be treated as basic pay for purposes of computing: (1) an annuity of a disabled employee or member. And (2) a survivor annuity if based on the service of an individual who dies before separating from service.
Enhanced RescissionReceipts Act of 1993 - Grants the President legislative line item veto rescission authority over appropriation bills and targeted tax benefits in revenue bills. Authorizes the President to rescind all or part of any budget authority if the President determines that such rescission: (1) would reduce the Federal budget deficit, (2) will not impair any essential Government functions. And (3) will not harm the national interest. Requires the President to notify the Congress of such a rescission by special message not later than 20 calendar days after enactment of appropriations or revenue legislation. Makes such a rescission effective unless the Congress, during a review period of 20 calendar days, enacts a rescissionreceipts disapproval bill. Describes: (1) information to be included in the President's message. And (2) procedures to govern consideration of rescissionreceipts disapproval legislation in the Senate and the House of Representatives.
Directs the Secretary of Commerce to assess the US economy to determine what goods the United States currently produces, where such goods are produced, which US manufacturing sector is the most competitive in the global economy, and what policies are necessary to maintain or increase the competitiveness of US manufacturing in the global economy. Requires the Secretary to: (1) develop and submit to Congress a comprehensive national manufacturing strategy. (2) establish and submit to Congress targets for the growth of US manufacturing for each of FY2012-FY2016. (3) survey all federal agencies that provide support to US manufacturers, and report survey results to Congress. (4) report to Congress on progress and trends in US manufacturing since a specified 2004 report by the Secretary concerning manufacturing in America. And (5) biennially survey US entities that maintain manufacturing facilities outside the United States, maintain a database on information collected through each survey, and submit each survey's results to Congress.
Post-Prostate Cancer Treatment Equity Act of 2007 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Public Health Service Act to require a group health plan that provides medical and surgical benefits with respect to prostate cancer treatment to provide coverage for: (1) all stages of reconstructive prosthetic urology surgery. And (2) prostheses and physical complications of prostatectomy. Requires plans to provide notice of the coverage. Prohibits a group health plan from: (1) denying to a patient eligibility or continued eligibility solely to avoid the requirements of this Act. Or (2) penalizing or otherwise reducing or limiting the reimbursement of a provider or providing incentives to induce such provider to provide care to a participant or beneficiary in a manner inconsistent with this Act. Applies such requirements to coverage offered in the individual market.
American Textile Technology Innovation and Research for Exportation (ATTIRE) Act - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish a grant program to fund textile research and innovation in the US textile and fiber products industry and to promote increased US textile exports. Limits eligibility under such grant program to institutions of higher education and not-for-profit research institutions, including not-for-profit industry associations whose mission is to support textile research and innovation. Gives preference in the award of such grants to collaborative research organizations that emphasize peer-reviewed research by leading academic and industry experts. Requires grant funds to be used for research and development activities that achieve at least one of the goals described in this Act, including to: (1) build and sustain innovation and competitiveness in the US textile industry. (2) contribute to transforming the US textile and apparel industry into a highly flexible supply chain. And (3) facilitate the creation of domestic jobs in the textile industry.
Prohibits any reduction of Federal funds available to a participating tribe as a result of this Act. Provides for interagency fund transfers to carry out this Act. Makes any State with an alcohol and substance abuse or mental health program targeted to Indian tribes eligible to receive, at no cost, such Federal personnel assignments as the Secretary may deem appropriate to help ensure the success of such program.
Upper Mississippi Conservation and River Protection Act of 2012 or the Upper Mississippi CARP Act - Directs the Chief of Engineers to: (1) study the feasibility of temporarily closing the lock at the Upper St. Anthony Falls Lock and Dam, or implementing control measures at the lock, including permanently closing the lock, modifying lock operations, or using an alternative technology barrier, to manage the threat of Asian carp traveling up the Mississippi River in Minnesota. And (2) assess the potential impacts, including environmental and economic impacts, of temporarily closing the lock or continuing to operate it and of implementing the control measures or not implementing such measures. Authorizes the Chief to close the lock upon determining that closure is justified based on the assessment of potential impacts. Requires the Chief to close the lock upon determining that a live adult Asian carp has been captured above Lock and Dam 2 or that a juvenile Asian carp has been captured above Lock and Dam 4. Allows the Chief to reopen the lock upon determining that adequate measures are in place to manage the threat. Directs the Council on Environmental Quality to incorporate the Upper Mississippi River and tributaries, the Minnesota River, and the St. Croix River into the Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework of the Council. Expresses the sense of Congress that federal agencies researching Asian carp control technologies should partner with state and local shareholders, giving priority to collaborative partnerships in which such shareholders contribute to the cost of the research.
Social Security Totalization Agreement Reform Act of 2007 - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to provide that any agreement to establish a totalization arrangement which is entered into with another country shall enter into force with respect to the United States if : (1) the President, at least 90 calendar days before the date on which he enters into the agreement, notifies each House of Congress of his intention to enter into it, and promply thereafter publishes notice of such intention in the Federal Register. (2) he transmits the text of such agreement to each House of the Congress. And (3) a joint resolution regarding such agreement has passed both Houses of Congress and been enacted into federal law. Sets forth procedures for the consideration of such a joint resolution.
Prison Abuse Remedies Act of 2009 - Amends the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act to: (1) eliminate the requirement of a prior showing of physical injury before a prisoner may bring a claim for mental or emotional injury suffered while in custody. And (2) provide for a 90-day stay of nonfrivolous claims relating to prison conditions to allow prison officials to consider such claims through the administrative process. And (3) exclude from the application of such Act prisoners under the age of 18. Amends the federal criminal code to: (1) exempt prisoners under the age of 18 from the restrictions imposed by the Prison Litigation Reform Act. And (2) expand the discretionary authority of judges in awarding relief in actions involving prison conditions. Amends the federal judicial code to: (1) exempt prisoners under the age of 18 from certain restrictions on in forma pauperis proceedings. (2) expand the number of in forma pauperis actions a prisoner may bring. And (3) revise requirements for assessing filing fees and costs against prisoners in such actions.
Superfund Reinvestment Act Amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) to authorize the use of amounts in the Hazardous Substance Superfund for environmental cleanup costs authorized by such Act. Provides that receipts and disbursements of the Hazardous Substance Superfund: (1) shall not be counted as new budget authority, outlays, receipts, or deficit or surplus, for purposes of the President's budget, the congressional budget, the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, or the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, (2) shall be exempt from any general budget limitations. And (3) shall be available only for the purposes specified in CERCLA. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) reinstate through December 31, 2024 and adjust for inflation annually after 2016, the Hazardous Substance Superfund financing rate and the corporate environmental income tax threshold amount, (2) extend the borrowing authority of the Superfund through 2024, and (3) modify the definition of quot, crude oilquot. For purposes of the excise tax on petroleum and petroleum products to include any bitumen or bituminous mixture, any oil derived from a bitumen or bituminous mixture , and any oil derived from kerogen-bearing sources .
DMZ War Veterans Recognition Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to place on or near the grounds of the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, D. C. a plaque to commemorate the sacrifices of those who served, were wounded, or were killed from 1953 until the present in the defense of the Republic of Korea.
Amends the Department of Education Organization Act to establish an Office of Women's Equity as an organizational entity in the Department of Education. Requires the Director of such Office to report annually on the programs and activities assisted under the Women's Educational Equity Act. Women's Educational Equity Act of 1993 - Amends the Women's Educational Equity Act to reauthorize and revise grant programs to encourage gender equity throughout the educational system, including grants for model equity programs, local implementation, and research and development. Gives the Director of the Office of Women's Equity specified responsibilities under such Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Child Care Quality Incentive Act of 1999 - Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to establish a program of incentive grants to improve the quality of, and access to, child care by increasing child care payment rates. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make such grants to eligible States from specified allotments. Conditions a State's initial eligibility on its having surveyed the market rates for child care services in the State within the two years preceding submission of its application. Authorizes the Secretary to make an annual payment to an eligible State only if: (1) the Secretary determines that the State has made progress, through the assisted activities, in maintaining increased payment rates. And (2) the State updates such survey at least once every two years. Requires the State, to be eligible to receive such a grant, to agree to make available State contributions in cash from State sources toward at least 25 percent of the costs of priority required activities and additional authorized activities. Requires an eligible State that receives such a grant to make priority use of such funds to increase significantly the rate of reimbursement to providers for subsidized child care. Allows an eligible State, if it demonstrates to the Secretary that it has achieved such a payment rate for provision of child care assistance of the 100th percentile of the market rate survey, to use grant funds for any additional activity it demonstrates will enhance the quality of child care services. Requires evaluation reports by States to the Secretary, as well as biennial reports by the Secretary to the Congress.
Border Security and Elimination of Sanctuary for Illegal Aliens Act of 2007 - Expresses the sense of Congress that the worsening crisis of illegal immigration must be solved. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security to: (1) increase incentives to recruit Border Patrol agents through repayment of higher education loans, (2) establish a retention program. And (3) make construction of border fencing a priority. Authorizes the Secretary to deploy newly-developed technology along the land and maritime borders. Requires that a state or local law enforcement agency that arrests an alien unlawfully in the United States for any reason shall notify United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement respecting such arrest and provide the identity of the arrested person. Provides for: (1) such person's expedited removal from the United States, and (2) criminal penalties and expedited removal for a subsequent unlawful presence. Makes inadmissible to the United States an alien who has been unlawfully present in the United States and who attempts to illegally enter or reenter the United States.
Amends the Clean Air Act to redefine renewable biomass as: (1) materials, pre-commercial thinnings, or invasive species from certain National Forest System land and public lands that are byproducts of preventive treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or restore ecosystem health, that would not otherwise be used for higher-value products, and that are harvested in accordance with specified requirements for old-growth forests and large tree retention. Or (2) any organic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis from nonfederal land or land belonging to an Indian or Indian tribe that is held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States, including specified renewable plant material and waste material. Applies this definition in any federal law enacted after the date of enactment of this Act to: (1) establish a renewable electricity standard, or (2) regulate the emission of greenhouse gases.
Small Business Lawsuit Abuse Protection Act of 1997 - Provides that, in any civil action against a small business , punitive damages may be awarded against such business only if the claimant establishes by clear and convincing evidence that conduct carried out by the defendant through willful misconduct or with a conscious, flagrant indifference to the rights or safety of others was the proximate cause of the harm that is the subject of the action. Prohibits, in any action against a small business, punitive damages from exceeding the lesser of: (1) twice the amount awarded for economic and noneconomic losses. Or (2) $250,000. Provides that, in such an action, the liability of each defendant small business shall be limited to the amount of noneconomic loss allocated to that defendant in direct proportion to its percentage of responsibility for the harm that is the subject of the action. Requires the court to render a separate judgment against each such defendant. Provides as exceptions to the small business liability limitations under this Act any misconduct: (1) that constitutes a crime of violence, international terrorism, or a hate crime. (2) that involves a sexual offense or a violation of a Federal or State civil rights law. Or (3) if the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating alcohol or a drug at the time of the misconduct and that fact causes any of the harm alleged.
Medicare and Medicaid Hospital Self-Referral Amendments of 1996 - Amends titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require hospitals participating in the Medicare or Medicaid programs to: (1) give notice of availability of providers as part of the discharge planning process. And (2) maintain and disclose information on certain referrals. Amends SSA title XI to provide for public disclosure of certain information on hospital financial interest and referral patterns by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
National Discovery Trails Act of 1997 - Amends the National Trails System Act to provide for the establishment, as components of the National Trails System, of national discovery trails which shall be extended, continuous interstate trails located so as to provide for outdoor recreation and travel and to connect representative examples of America's trails and communities. Prohibits a trail from being considered feasible and desirable for designation as a national discovery trail unless it: (1) links to one or more areas within the boundaries of a metropolitan area and joins with other trails, tying the National Trails System to significant recreation and resources areas. (2) is supported by a competent trailwide nonprofit organization and has extensive local and trailwide support by the public, user groups, and affected State and local governments. And (3) extends and passes through more than one State and, at a minimum, is a continuous, walkable route. Requires the appropriate Secretary for each national discovery trail to administer the trail in cooperation with a competent trailwide nonprofit organization. Designates as a national discovery trail the 6,000-mile American Discovery Trail which shall extend from Cape Henlopen State Park in Delaware to Point Reyes National Seashore in California, traveling northern and southern routes from Cincinnati, Ohio, to Denver, Colorado. Requires the administering Federal agency, within three complete fiscal years after designation of a national discovery trail, to enter into arrangements with a competent trailwide nonprofit organization to submit to specified congressional committees a comprehensive plan for the protection, management, development, and use of the trail.
Recapture Excess Profits and Invest in Road (REPAIR) Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose in 2008 or 2009 an excise tax of 25 on the windfall profits of integrated oil companies and other producers and refiners of crude oil with gross receipts over $1 billion. Allows a tax deduction for the payment of the windfall profit tax imposed by this Act. Requires the transfer of windfall profit tax revenues to the Highway Trust Fund.
Helping Responsible Homeowners Act - Directs the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation each to carry out a one-year program providing for the refinancing of qualified single-family housing mortgages it owns through a refinancing mortgage in accordance with this Act and the policies and procedures of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Defines a qualified mortgage as one that: (1) is an existing first mortgage for purchase of, or refinancing another first mortgage on, a one- to four-family dwelling, including a condominium or a share in a cooperative ownership housing association, that is occupied by the mortgagor as principal residence, (2) is owned or guaranteed by the particular GSE. And (3) the mortgagor is current on payments due under the mortgage. Specifies the terms and conditions of a refinancing mortgage, including a 40-year term to maturity and a prohibition on borrower fees. Requires waiver or forgiveness of all fees and penalties related to any default or delinquency on the original mortgage. Prohibits the GSEs from charging a mortgagee any up-front fee beyond the standard guarantee fee for the refinancing of the qualified mortgage. Makes ineligible for purchase or guarantee by either GSE of any new mortgage originated by a servicer or creditor holding a second lien on a qualified mortgage who refuses to resubordinate that lien, and thereby prevents the refinancing of the qualified mortgage. Directs the GSEs to require each servicer of a mortgage owned or guaranteed by the GSE to inform each mortgage borrower of the refinancing program authorized and established under this Act.
Authorizes the Court of Veterans Appeals to provide funds for financial assistance to legal assistance entities to assist financially needy veterans in connection with proceedings before such Court. Permits legal assistance activities in connection with such proceedings to include: (1) financial assistance to defray the expenses of legal advice or representation, (2) case screening and referral services. (3) education and training of attorneys and other legal personnel who may appear before the Court. And (4) encouragement and facilitation of pro bono representation by attorneys, clinical law programs of law schools, and veterans' service organizations. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) contributions by legal assistance entities receiving financial assistance. (2) a prohibition against such entities requiring or requesting the payment of a charge or fee in connection with the program, and (3) administrative and reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations.
Combat Meth Act of 2005 - Authorizes funds to provide training to State and local prosecutors and law enforcement agents for investigation and prosecution of methamphetamine offenses, including a set-aside for prosecutors and law enforcement agents for rural communities. Amends: (1) the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to expand the public safety and community policing grant program to authorize the use of grant funds to hire personnel and purchase equipment to assist in enforcing and prosecuting methamphetamine offenses and in cleaning up methamphetamine-affected areas. (2) the Controlled Substances Act to add pseudoephedrine to schedule V. And (3) the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants for the development of drug endangered children rapid response teams and grants to local governments, Indian tribes, and nonprofit private entities to provide treatment for methamphetamine abuse. Directs the Attorney General to allocate funds for the hiring and training of special assistant US attorneys. Authorizes the Attorney General, acting through the Bureau of Justice Assistance, to award grants to States to establish methamphetamine precursor monitoring programs.
Pharmaceutical Supply and Value Enhancement Act or the Pharmaceutical SAVE Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to authorize importation of life-saving drugs for which there is, or is likely to be, a shortage. For a drug to be imported, the drug's manufacturer must intend to seek FDA approval of the drug as a generic drug. The FDA may deny importation of a drug for reasons related to safety or effectiveness. Drugs in noncompetitive markets must be treated as being in a shortage for purposes of this bill and for purposes of expedited inspections and review. A drug is in a noncompetitive market if: (1) there are fewer than five holders of approved applications for commercially available brand name or generic versions of the drug, (2) the drug has been approved for at least 10 years, and (3) patents on the active ingredient of the drug have expired.
Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act of 2013 - Amends the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to revise the exclusion from the meaning of quot, mortgage originatorquot. Of any employee of a retailer of manufactured homes who does not for compensation or gain take residential mortgage loan applications, for compensation or gain offer or negotiate terms of a residential mortgage loan, or advise a consumer on loan terms . Excludes from the meaning of quot, mortgage originator,quot. Instead, any retailer of manufactured or modular homes or its employees unless the retailer or its employees receive compensation or gain for engaging in certain activities in excess of any compensation or gain received in a comparable cash transaction. Amends the Truth in Lending Act to revise the definition of high cost mortgage.
Southern Nevada Higher Education Land Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey three parcels of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land to: (1) the Nevada System of Higher Education for the Great Basin College and the College of Southern Nevada. And (2) the System for the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Specifies that the Nevada System of Higher Education may use the conveyed federal land for any purpose relating to the establishment, operation, growth, and maintenance of the System and for any uses related to such purposes, including residential and commercial development that would generally be associated with an institution of higher education.
King Holiday and Service Act of 1993 - Amends Federal law to: (1) authorize appropriations for the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission, (2) extend the Commission. And (3) revise its membership. Amends the National and Community Service Act of 1990 to authorize the Commission to make grants to eligible entities to carry out service opportunities on Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday. Authorizes appropriations.
Business Checking Freedom Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to repeal the prohibition against the payment of interest on demand deposits. Makes such repeal effective two years from the date of enactment. Authorizes interest-bearing transaction accounts for businesses, permitting up to 24 transfers per month (or any greater number the Federal Reserve Board to another account of the owner in the same institution. Authorizes the payment of interest by a Federal reserve bank at least quarterly on balances maintained there on behalf of a depository institution. Revises the requirements for the annual survey of bank fees and services by the Board to specify the inclusion of: (1) checking and other transaction accounts, (2) negotiable order of withdrawal and savings accounts, (3) automated teller machine transactions. And (4) other electronic transactions. Establishes minimum survey requirements for each such account or transaction area. Requires such survey to address minimum balance requirements as well as fees. Amends the Truth in Lending Act to revise the requirements for the semiannual survey of credit card price and availability information to specify the inclusion of certain information, including finance charges, annual percentage rates, and various fees. Requires the Board to report annually to Congress on the results of both surveys. Amends the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 to repeal the termination date for and so continue the annual survey by the Board of certain retail banking services provided by insured depository institutions. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to revise the ratio of reserves a depository institution must maintain against its transaction accounts, permitting a ratio of zero. Directs the Federal reserve banks in FY 2002 through 2006 to transfer to the Board for transfer to the Secretary of the Treasury, for deposit in the general fund, additional surplus funds equal to the net cost of their interest payments to depository institutions. Provides a rule of construction for escrow accounts maintained at a depository institution in connection with a real estate transaction. Declares that the institution's absorption of expenses or forbearance in charging a fee or other benefit should not be treated as the payment or receipt of interest.
Derivatives Limitations Act of 1995 - Amends the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to prohibit an insured depository institution from engaging in any transaction involving a derivative financial instrument either for its own account, or that of an affiliate. Permits exceptions for: (1) hedging transactions, (2) a separately capitalized affiliate of an insured depository institution. And (3) transactions involving de minimis interest in derivative financial instruments sanctioned by a Federal banking regulatory agency. Requires the appropriate Federal banking agency to promulgate rules governing such exceptions. Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to prohibit an insured credit union and any affiliates from engaging in derivative financial instruments transactions. Subjects credit unions and their affiliates to the interstate bank merger provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Amends the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 to allow a bank holding company subsidiary to engage in derivative financial instrument transactions for its own account if it: (1) is not an insured depository institution or a subsidiary of one. And (2) is separately capitalized from any affiliated insured depository institution. Subjects bank holding companies to the interstate bank merger provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
HUD Programs Information Verification Act - Amends part D of title IV of the Social Security Act to provide for public and assisted housing-related employment and income data comparisons between the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of Health and Human Services' National Directory of New Hires. Sets forth data disclosure and use limitations.
Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act of 2014 - Amends the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to condition eligibility to receive a state grant for child abuse or neglect prevention and treatment programs on inclusion in the state plan of a certification by the governor that the state has in effect and is enforcing a state law, or is operating a statewide program, that includes provisions and procedures to: (1) identify and assess reports involving children who are sex trafficking victims , (2) train representatives of the state child protective services about identifying and assessing such children, and (3) identify services and procedures for appropriate referral to address the needs of such children. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to report to Congress on: (1) the specific type and prevalence of severe forms of trafficking in persons to which children have been subjected who are identified for services or intervention under the placement, care, or supervision of state, Indian tribe, or tribal organization child welfare agencies. (2) the practices and protocols utilized by states to identify and serve children who are, or are at-risk of becoming, victims of trafficking. And (3) any barriers in federal laws or regulations that may prevent identification and assessment of children who are such victims.
Traumatic Brain Injury Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to revise the national program for traumatic brain injury registries to make grants for state traumatic brain injury surveillance systems or registries to: (1) determine the incidence and prevalence of traumatic brain injury and related disability. (2) ensure the uniformity of reporting under each such system or registry. (3) link individuals with traumatic brain injury to services and supports. And (4) link such individuals with academic institutions to conduct applied research. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), to report to the relevant congressional committees on activities and procedures that can be implemented by the CDC to improve the collection and dissemination of compatible epidemiological studies on the incidence and prevalence of traumatic brain injury in those who were formerly in the military. Authorizes the Secretary, acting through the Director of CDC, to conduct a study to: (1) determine the incidence of traumatic brain injury and prevalence of traumatic brain injury related disability, (2) report national trends in traumatic brain injury. (3) identify common therapeutic interventions which are used for the rehabilitation of individuals with such injuries. (4) identify interventions and therapies that can prevent or remediate the development of secondary neurologic conditions related to traumatic brain injury. And (5) develop practice guidelines for such rehabilitation. Authorizes appropriations for FY2009-FY2012 for NIH's trauma research program. Allows the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources Services Administration (HRSA), to make grants to states and American Indian consortia to improve access to rehabilitation and other services regarding traumatic brain injury. Authorizes appropriations for such grants for FY2009-FY2012. Requires the Administrator and the Commissioner of the Administration on Developmental Disabilities to coordinate the collection of data regarding protection and advocacy services. Directs the Administrator to make a grant for training and technical assistance to protection and advocacy systems, if funds permit. Authorizes appropriations for FY2009-FY2012.
Green River National Wildlife Refuge Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish, revise the boundaries of, and acquire land and water for the Green River National Wildlife Refuge in Kentucky. Requires the Secretary, in administering the Refuge, to: (1) conserve, enhance, and restore the native aquatic and terrestrial community characteristics of the Green River. (2) conserve, enhance, and restore habitat to maintain and assist in the recovery of animals and plants that are listed as endangered or threatened species. (3) ensure that hunting, fishing, wildlife observation and photography, and environmental education and interpretation are the priority general public uses of the Refuge. And (4) encourage the use of volunteers and facilitate partnerships among the US Fish and Wildlife Service, local communities, conservation organizations, and other non-Federal entities to promote public awareness of the refuge resources and public participation in resource conservation.
Canyon Mountain Land Conveyance Act of 2013 - Holds in trust for the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians (Tribe) all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to approximately 17,826 acres of federal land generally depicted on the map entitled quot, Canyon Mountain Land Conveyance,quot. Dated June 27, 2013. Makes that land part of the Tribe's reservation. Applies federal law relating to the export of unprocessed logs harvested from federal land to any unprocessed logs that are harvested from the federal land conveyed to the Tribe. Prohibits gaming on those lands. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey to the Oregon and California Railroad public domain land that is located within a specified planning area and is approximately equal in acreage and condition to Railroad land that this Act conveys to the Tribe.
Business Checking Fairness Act of 2007 - Amends federal law to authorize interest-bearing or dividend-bearing transaction accounts for all businesses, permitting up to 24 transfers per month to another account of the owner in the same institution. Amends the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to repeal the prohibition against the payment of interest on demand deposits. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to require the Board to survey biennially and report biennially to Congress on bank fees and certain services. Amends the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, and the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, to repeal certain reporting requirements. Cites practices which shall not be treated as payment or receipt of interest if they relate to an escrow account maintained at a depository institution in connection with a real estate transaction.
Iran Nuclear Nonproliferation Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) full diplomatic, political, and economic relations between the United States and Iran cannot be normalized unless enforceable safeguards are put in place to prevent weaponization of Iran's nuclear program and the government of Iran ends its support for international terrorist groups, but the attainment of these objectives should not constitute preconditions for any diplomatic dialogue. And (2) no congressional authorization for the use of military force in any Act enacted before the date of enactment of this Act constitutes an authorization for the use of military force against Iran or its nuclear program. States as the policy of the United States not to enter into a preemptive war against Iran in the absence of an immediate threat, and then only in accordance with international law and constitutional and statutory requirements for congressional authorization. Prohibits funds available to the Department of Defense (DOD) or any other federal department or agency from being used to carry out any covert action for the purpose of causing regime change in Iran or to carry out any military action against Iran in the absence of an imminent threat.
Ensuring Full Use of Federal Health Care Funding Act of 2014 - Amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to recoup any funds awarded to a state to establish health care exchanges to the extent the state has not obligated them for expenditure before April 1, 2014. Allows the Secretary, however, not to recoup such funds from a state if the state has approved, before March 31, 2014, a plan to spend them for such exchanges in a timely manner. Requires the Secretary to use any recouped funds to make grants to qualified entities to: (1) build and fund operations of an in-person assistance personnel (IPA) program. (2) coordinate with other health and human services organizations in the state to broaden outreach to individuals eligible to enroll in qualified health plans through the exchange operating in the state. And (3) produce and disseminate marketing and campaign materials, subject to the Secretary's approval. Requires a qualified entity to: (1) have relationships with employers and employees, consumers , or self-employed individuals in the state that are likely to be qualified to enroll in coverage options made available through a health care exchange in the state, (2) be capable of carrying out grant activities. And (3) meet specified standards. Lists as types of qualified entities: (1) a trade, industry, and professional association, (2) a commercial fishing industry organization, (3) a ranching and farming organization, (4) a community and consumer-focused nonprofit group, (5) a chamber of commerce, (6) a union, (7) a resource partner of the Small Business Administration (SBA), (8) a licensed insurance agent or broker, and (9) any other entity that meets the qualification standards.
Data Broker Accountability and Transparency Act - Prohibits a data broker from obtaining or causing to be disclosed personal information or any other information relating to any person by making a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation to any person, including by providing to any person any document that the data broker knows or should know to be forged, counterfeit, lost, stolen, or fraudulently obtained or that contains a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation. Defines quot, data brokerquot. As a commercial entity that collects, assembles, or maintains personal information concerning an individual who is not a customer or an employee in order to sell, or provide third-party access to, such information. Requires data brokers to establish procedures to ensure the accuracy of the personal information they collect, assemble, or maintain and of any other information that specifically identifies an individual, unless the information identifies only names or addresses. Exempts from such requirements information that may be inaccurate if it is collected or maintained solely to: (1) indicate whether there may be a discrepancy or irregularity in the personal information associated with an individual, (2) identify or authenticate the identity of an individual. Or (3) protect against or investigate fraud or other unlawful conduct. Requires data brokers to provide individuals a means to review certain information collected, assembled, or maintained on such individuals, unless a regulatory exception promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) applies. Requires data brokers to maintain an Internet website that instructs individuals how to: (1) review their information, and (2) express a preference with respect to the use of their personal information for marketing purposes. Permits individuals to dispute the accuracy of their information with a written request that the data broker make a correction. Requires a data broker, with regard to disputed public record information, to: (1) inform the individual of the source of the information and, if reasonably available, where to direct the individual's request for correction. Or (2) correct the inaccuracy in the data broker's records if the individual provides proof that the public record has been corrected or that the data broker was reporting the information incorrectly. Defines quot, public record informationquot. As information obtained originally from records of a federal, state, or local government entity that are available for public inspection. Requires a data broker, with regard to disputed non-public information, to: (1) note the information that is disputed, (2) use reasonable procedures to independently verify the information, and (3) correct the inaccuracy in the data broker's records if the data broker was reporting the information incorrectly. Requires data brokers that use, share, or sell certain information for marketing purposes to provide individuals a reasonable means of expressing a preference to exclude their information from being used for such purposes. Sets forth the authority of the FTC and states to enforce this Act.
Protect Our Health Privacy Act - Amends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) to expand requirements for reports to Congress on acquisition or disclosure of unsecured protected health information in a breach to include: (1) descriptions of types of such information involved in each breach. And (2) the identity of the covered entity involved in each breach or, if the breach affected fewer than 500 individuals, the kind of covered entity involved. Revises requirements for the annual compliance report concerning informally resolved complaints of violations relating to privacy and security of health information to require: (1) a summary of the most common types of complaints resolved, (2) statements of the average amount of time between receipt of a complaint to its resolution by category and examples, (3) additional reporting of federal and state enforcement actions and priorities. Requires the Attorney General to report annually to Congress, and to publish, a study of complaints of alleged violations concerning wrongful disclosure of individually identifiable health information referred to the Department of Justice (DOJ) by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), or another state or federal agency. Includes portable media devices in guidance issued by the Secretary concerning technologies and methodologies rendering protected health information unusable by unauthorized individuals. Directs the Secretary to issue regulations requiring covered entities and their business associates to render protected health information stored on such media unusable by unauthorized individuals. Provides rules for application of regulations concerning health information privacy to use by business associates of covered entities. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary to issue regulations to improve the safety, interoperability, and utility of health information technology systems, including: (1) a system to track the effect of health information technology on patients' health, and (2) minimum quality and risk management requirements for technology vendors. Requires promulgation of regulations by an HHS-designated agency concerning a health information technology adverse health event reporting program and database and reports by such agency on its findings to industry and policymakers.
Authorizes the award of a single Congressional Gold Medal to collectively honor the American soldiers who were prisoners of war at BataanCorregidorLuzon during World War II, in recognition of their personal sacrifice and service to their country. Provides for the Medal's display at the Smithsonian Institution. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Medal should be made available for display elsewhere, particularly at locations associated with those who fought in defense of BataanCorregidorLuzon and the prisoners of war.
Overseas Citizens Voting Rights Act of 1996 - Amends the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act to require each State to allow absentee ballots to be received at least until the closing of polls on election day. Extends the Federal write-in ballot provisions to include special, primary, and run-off elections. Recommends that the States consider, with respect to absent uniformed services voters and overseas voters, means to provide for the expeditious return of absentee ballots, including return by electronic transmittal. Requires each State to establish a system for electronic transmittal of balloting materials for overseas voters. Sets forth provisions concerning system requirements, including funding and notification requirements.
Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to: (1) develop evaluation methods for lead detection products and techniques. (2) conduct long-term research to establish the sources of children's lead exposure. And (3) sponsor related public education and outreach efforts, including telephone hotline and clearinghouse systems. Requires the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology to conduct research on: (1) effective practices, techniques, and new technologies to reduce human exposure to lead. And (2) safety and effectiveness of lead removal and containment products. Authorizes State grants for compilation of lead exposure data.
Senior Citizens' Freedom to Work Act - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to increase the monthly exempt amount, under the earnings test, for individuals who have attained retirement age. Sets forth the schedule of monthly adjustments increasing from $1,208 for taxable year 1996 to $2,500 for taxable year 2002. Subjects such increased amounts to current law cost-of-living adjustments after 2002. Requires the Managing Trustee of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund to increase by a specified percentage per year the rate of interest borne by public-debt obligations issued for purchase by the OASDI trust funds between September 30, 1995, and October 1, 2002. Provides that each nonexempt account within the discretionary spending category for each of FY 1996 through 2002 shall be reduced, if necessary, by the uniform percentage necessary to offset the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund shortfall resulting from the amendments of this Act increasing the monthly exempt amount. Directs the Comptroller General to analyze and report to the Congress on the dynamic effect of the revision of the social security earnings limit made by this Act and a calculation of its true effect on the Federal budget.
Medicare, Medicaid, and MCH Tobacco Cessation Promotion Act of 2004 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide for Medicare coverage of: (1) counseling for cessation of tobacco use. And (2) tobacco cessation pharmacotherapy. Provides for similar benefits under SSA titles V and XIX (Medicaid).
Seabed Protection Act - Prohibits any person from engaging in bottom trawling or use of other mobile fishing gear on the seabed in specified marine areas until: (1) the National Marine Fisheries Service has completed a study and determined the effects of those practices. (2) the Secretary of Commerce has determined that the impacts of bottom trawling and such other mobile fishing gear on biodiversity, marine habitat, and productivity of fish stocks is negligible. And (3) the Secretary has approved and implemented fishery management plans that are developed by the appropriate regional fishery management councils, that encourage the use of fishing gears that are less destructive of habitat than bottom trawling and other mobile fishing gear, and that prohibit use of bottom trawling and other mobile fishing gear practices that threaten the continued sustainability of ecosystems. Directs the Secretary to report annually to specified congressional committees regarding the recovery of such marine areas from the effects of bottom trawling and use of other mobile fishing gear on the seabed. Provides that such prohibition shall not apply to an area after the Secretary publishes a finding that there are in effect, under State law or a fishery management plan under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act measures that are at least as effective as those required under this Act in maintaining the sustainability of ecosystems in that area.
Biodiesel Promotion and Quality Assurance Act of 2007 - Amends the Clean Air Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to promulgate regulations to ensure that diesel fuel sold in the United States contains the volume of biodiesel specified for 2008 through 2012. Requires the Administrator to determine the volume for 2013 and thereafter based on a review of the program. Requires at least 80 of the minimum applicable volume for each of 2008 through 2012 to be biodiesel. Requires the biodiesel fuel standards to contain compliance provisions applicable to refineries, blenders, distributors, and importers. Prohibits such standards from restricting geographic areas in which biodiesel may be used or imposing any per-gallon obligation for the use of biodiesel. Authorizes the Administrator to reduce the quantity of biodiesel required by a specified amount if market circumstances would make the price of biodiesel fuel unreasonable. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to supersede any biodiesel mandate provided in any state or local law enacted as of January 1, 2008. Requires the Administrator to: (1) promulgate regulations to ensure that only high-quality biodiesel that is consistent with appropriate International standards is introduced into commerce. And (2) establish an inspection program to ensure that biodiesel and biodiesel blends entering commerce meet such standards. Prohibits the production of distribution of biodiesel, a biodiesel blend, or any bio-based diesel replacement that does not meet American Society of Testing and Materials standards, regardless of whether the Administrator promulgates such regulations. Requires retail diesel fuel pumps to be labeled to inform consumers of the percent of biodiesel in the biodiesel blend.
Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security Reform Act of 1998 - Establishes the Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security Reform to design a single set of legislative and administrative recommendations for long-range reforms for restoring the solvency of the social security system and maintaining retirement income security in the United States. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends Federal transportation law to require a manufacturer, not later than 48 hours after determining, or learning that a government of a foreign country has determined, that a foreign motor vehicle product contains a defect that could be related to motor vehicle safety, to report such determination to the Secretary of Transportation. Sets forth similar requirements with respect to the reporting of possible defects in such vehicle or equipment that have resulted in a significant number of serious injuries or fatalities in a foreign country. Sets forth both criminal and civil penalties for manufacturers of foreign motor vehicle products who falsify information with respect to, or otherwise violate, the reporting requirements contained in this Act.
Recall Unsafe Drugs Act of 2017 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) to require producers of medications to notify the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the identity and location of a medication if the producer has reason to believe: (1) that the medication is adulterated or misbranded. And (2) there is a reasonable probability that the use or consumption of, or exposure to, the medication will cause a threat of serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals. The FDA may: (1) request that the distributor of a medication that is in violation of the FFDCA voluntarily recall the medication. (2) require the distributor of a medication that may cause serious adverse health consequences to immediately cease distribution of the medication. (3) recall a medication for which distribution has been ceased after giving the distributor an opportunity for an informal hearing. And (4) immediately recall a medication that presents an imminent threat of serious adverse health consequences. Distributors may appeal these FDA orders. In the case of a recall, the FDA must notify consumers and state and local health officials to whom the medication was, or may have been, distributed. Medication distributors must have a recall plan in effect.
Equity in Public Education Act of 1996 - Directs the Secretary of Education to make payments to eligible States to reimburse local educational agencies for specified costs of educating certain illegal alien students. Provides for such payments first to the States of California, Texas, and Florida. Provides for later payments to second and third groups of eligible States. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends title 36, United States Code to: (1) codify specified Federal laws related to Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations. And (2) make technical corrections to, or repeal, certain Federal laws.
Great Lakes Protection and Restoration Committee Act - Establishes the Great Lakes Protection and Restoration Committee to: (1) study and report to the President, the Congress, and the Governor of each Great Lakes State on programs established and carried out to achieve restoration goals for the Great Lakes prepared by the Governors of Great Lakes States. And (2) make recommendations for prioritization of such goals, legislation, and funding to achieve them, and improvement of coordination among programs and governments with respect to them.
Water Infrastructure Resiliency and Sustainability Act of 2015 This bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish the Water Infrastructure Resiliency and Sustainability Program to provide grants in each of FY2015-FY2019 for programs or projects to increase the resiliency or adaptability of water systems to any ongoing or forecasted changes to the hydrologic conditions of a US region. A water system is a community water system, a treatment works, a decentralized wastewater treatment system for domestic sewage, a groundwater storage and replenishment system, a system for transport and delivery of water for irrigation or conservation, or a natural or engineered system that manages floodwater. The EPA must give priority to owners or operators of water systems that are at the greatest and most immediate risk of facing significant negative impacts due to changing hydrologic conditions. The EPA must ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the list of grant applications funded includes a substantial number that propose to use innovative approaches that meet at least one of these goals: promote more efficient water use, conservation, reuse, or recycling, use decentralized, low-impact development technologies and nonstructural approaches. Reduce stormwater runoff or flooding by protecting or enhancing natural ecosystem functions. Modify, upgrade, enhance, or replace existing water system infrastructure in response to changing hydrologic conditions, improve water quality or quantity for agricultural and municipal uses. And provide multiple benefits, including water supply enhancement or demand reduction, water quality protection or improvement, increased flood protection, and ecosystem protection or improvement.
World War II Memorial Completion Act - Directs the American Battle Monuments Commission to solicit and accept contributions for establishing the World War II memorial in the District of Columbia or its environs . Establishes in the Treasury a fund to hold and expend such contributions. Authorizes the Commission to: (1) borrow up to $65 million from the Treasury to ensure that memorial groundbreaking, construction, and dedication are completed on a timely basis. And (2) accept voluntary services in furtherance of fund-raising activities . Extends until December 31, 2005 , the authority to construct the memorial. Revises current Commission authority to receive State, local, and private amounts for establishing the memorial to: (1) authorize the Commission to solicit such contributions. And (2) require the deposit of such amounts in the fund created under this Act. Requires the Commission to establish written guidelines for the acceptance of funds and in-kind contributions. Authorizes the Commission to adopt, obtain, use, register, and license trademarks, copyrights, and patents in connection with intellectual property and related items.
Mortgage Broker Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007  Amends the Truth in Lending Act to establish mandatory responsibilities, duties, and disclosures governing mortgage brokers. Deems any mortgage broker to have a statutory agency relationship with the consumer subject to all requirements under state or federal law. Sets forth disclosure requirements, including disclosure of: (1) the risks and benefits of each home mortgage loan product. (2) possible payment increases at the time of any resetting of rate, (3) the extent of any prepayment penalties and balloon payments. And (4) the consumer's responsibilities to pay taxes and insurance with respect to such product. Requires mortgage brokers to maintain a bond that inures, first, to the benefit of any consumer who has any claim against the mortgage broker under this Act. Prohibits: (1) mortgage brokers from steering a consumer to a higher-cost mortgage than one for which the consumer would otherwise qualify. And (2) waiver by a consumer of the requirements imposed upon a mortgage broker under this Act. Requires disclosure of specified affiliations on the part of persons involved in the home mortgage loan process.
Compact Impact Relief Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to make quarterly increases in the federal medical assistance percentage, under title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act, to cover expenditures for medical assistance provided to qualified nonimmigrants under the Compact of Free Association by American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the State of Hawaii. The bill amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to make local educational agencies eligible for impact aid for educating alien children admitted to the United States as citizens of one of the Freely Associated States. The bill amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1980 to grant a preference to citizens and nationals of the United States within Guam or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in the receipt of housing assistance over any non-resident alien. The bill directs the Department of State to contract with an eligible organization to conduct an independent assessment of the strategic importance of the relationship between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.
TPS Reform Act of 2016 This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to revise the criteria for designation of a foreign state as eligible to have its citizens be given temporary protected status (TPS) in the United States. Such revisions include the following: (1) such a foreign state shall be designated by an Act of Congress rather than by the Department of Justice. (2) such Act must find that an environmental disaster in such a foreign state is immediately life-threatening. (3) such Act may provide for early termination of a foreign state's designation. (4) such Act shall include an estimate of the number of a foreign state's nationals who are TPS eligible, their US immigration status, and a time period for the effectiveness of the designation of not more than 18 months. And (5) an alien lacking lawful immigration status shall be ineligible for TPS.
Department of Veterans Affairs Purchased Health Care Streamlining and Modernization Act This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), in addition to furnishing hospital care, medical services, or extended care at VA facilities or under contracts or sharing agreements, to furnish such care and services to eligible veterans through the use of Veterans Care Agreements with eligible providers. An eligible provider is: a provider whose income in the year preceding the year of entering into an agreement did not exceed $11 million. A provider who does not otherwise provide such care or services pursuant to a federal contract. And a physician or provider of Medicaid or Medicare services, an Aging and Disability Resource Center, an area agency on aging, or a center for independent living. The VA shall: (1) establish a certifying process for providers, (2) review agreements at least once every two years, and (3) use the quality of care standards set forth or used by the Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid Services. The VA may enter into an agreement using non-competitive procedures.
Prescribes conditions under which the Bonneville Power Administration or any other Federal agency may enter into or implement a memorandum of understanding. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to establish an advisory committee to advise Federal agencies regarding matters addressed under any such memorandum, including the economic and social impact of proposed activities or recommendations. Instructs the Secretary to appoint committee members from among the persons nominated by the Governors of Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington. Authorizes appropriations. Instructs the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, upon the request of a non-Federal party to such a memorandum, to designate an official authorized to reconcile differences between the Federal agencies on issues pertinent to the memorandum. Requires each Federal agency to make available to the public all data and methodologies prepared under such a memorandum. Directs the Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Council to report annually to the Congress on how the recommendations concerning fish and wildlife activities under the current memorandum of understanding will be reconciled and coordinated with its activities under the Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Act. Requires the President to include in each fiscal year budget for each Federal agency the amount of budget authority and outlays proposed to be expended in the Columbia-Snake River Basin.
District of Columbia Land Use Notification Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 to prohibit the Administrator of General Services, the Architect of the Capitol, the National Park Service, and the Smithsonian Institution from carrying out any activity that affects real property located in the District of Columbia unless the following individuals are notified with an opportunity to comment: (1) the Mayor of the District of Columbia, (2) the Chair of the Council of the District. And (3) the Chair of the Advisory Neighborhood Commission in whose neighborhood such property is located. Prohibits an event from being held at the William H. G. Fitzgerald Tennis Center at Rock Creek Park without the prior approval of the Director of the National Park Service and the Mayor of the District of Columbia. Authorizes the Administrator to waive the requirements of this Act if compliance would jeopardize public safety or national security interests: (1) upon certifying such finding to such individuals. And (2) providing the individuals with a notice and an opportunity to comment.
Consumer Financial Protection Commission Act of 2013 - Amends the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 , to replace the position of Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with a five-member Commission whose members are appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Prohibits the Chair of the Commission from making requests for estimates related to appropriations without prior Commission approval.
Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate a specified segment of the Hanford Reach of the Columbia River in Washington State as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Provides that only public land adjacent to the segment, and no privately-owned land, shall be included in it. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) manage the segment as a recreational river. And (2) meet specified criteria in developing and periodically revising a plan for the management of the segment. Retains access corridors in existence on the enactment of this Act. Requires the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers in cooperation and coordination with the heads of relevant Federal agencies and State and local governments, to develop a comprehensive plan of improvement for restoration and enhancement of fish and wildlife habitat, recreation, river access, and overall aesthetics of the levees and other rivershore areas downstream of the segment in the Tri-Cities area of Washington State. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Chief and subject to receipt of a statement of interest from the non-Federal interests for the following projects, to complete a preliminary restoration plan under the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 for: (1) a portion of the Clover Island rivershore and a portion of the levee immediately upstream of Clover Island. (2) the rivershore immediately upstream of the portion in the city of Kennewick, Washington, to the US Route 395 bridge. (3) the levee modified in 1994 between Road 39 and the US Route 395 bridge in Franklin County, Washington. And (4) the levee between the US Route 395 bridge to the area immediately downstream of the 10th Avenue bridge in the city of Pasco, Washington. Directs the Secretary, subject to the receipt of necessary commitments from the non-Federal interests, to complete a modification report for each project.
Sudden Oak Death Syndrome Control Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to carry out a sudden oak death syndrome research, monitoring, and regulation program to control or eradicate sudden oak death syndrome from: (1) trees and shrubs on public and private land. And (2) host and potential host plants from commercial nurseries. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) conduct open space, roadside, and aerial surveys, (2) provide monitoring workshops. (3) conduct a national survey of forests, plant nurseries, and landscapes that may have been exposed to Phytophthora ramorum, and develop a related risk assessment. (4) develop baseline information on infected oaks and maintain a geographic information system database of Phytophthora ramorum occurrences, (5) conduct Phytophthora ramorum research, (6) evaluate tree species susceptibility. And (7) provide diagnostic services. Directs the Secretary to conduct sudden oak death syndrome management, treatment, and fire prevention activities, including: (1) firefighting and emergency response improvements. And (2) local government grants for tree removal, disposal, and recycling, restoration and mitigation projects, green waste treatment facilities, reforestation, and resistant tree breeding. Directs the Secretary to conduct outreach and education activities, including: (1) educational materials development and distribution, including a website. And (2) financial and technical support to States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations providing information on sudden oak death syndrome. Expresses the sense of Congress that agency communication at all governmental levels is required for program effectiveness. Directs the Secretary to meet and consult regularly with Federal, State, tribal, and local government officials to exchange program information. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2005 through 2009.
Employment Non-Discrimination Act of 1995 - Prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation by covered entities, including an employing authority to which specified provisions of the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 or the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 apply. Declares that: (1) this Act does not apply to the provision of employee benefits for the benefit of an employee's partner. And (2) a disparate impact does not establish a prima facie violation of this Act. Prohibits quotas and preferential treatment. Declares that this Act does not apply to: (1) religious organizations, (2) the armed forces. Or (3) laws creating special rights or preferences for veterans. Provides for enforcement. Disallows State immunity. Makes the United States liable for all remedies to the same extent as a private person. Allows recovery of attorney's fees. Prohibits retaliation and coercion. Requires posting notices for employees and applicants.
Mapping a New and Innovative Focus on Our Exploration Strategy for Human Spaceflight Act of 2016 or the MANIFEST for Human Spaceflight Act of 2016 This bill amends the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 to make it a key US objective to achieve human exploration of Mars, including the establishment of a capability to extend human presence to the surface of Mars. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shall report a strategy to achieve such objective through a series of successive, sustainable, free-standing, but complementary missions making robust use of cislunar space and employing the Space Launch System, Orion crew capsule, and other capabilities provided under specified titles of the Act. NASA shall arrange with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to review and comment on each interim report on the strategy and identify matters the NAS agrees with and matters raising NAS concerns, as well as any NAS recommendations.
Algae-based Renewable Fuel Promotion Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to modify the definition of cellulosic biofuel for purposes of the cellulosic biofuel producer tax credit and the special depreciation allowance to mean any liquid fuel which is derived solely from qualified feedstocks. Defines qualified feedstocks as any lignocellulosic or hemicellulosic matter that is available on a renewable or recurring basis and any cultivated algae, cyanobacteria, or lemna. Provides for compliance of the budgetary effects of this Act with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
Prostate Testing Full Information Act - Requires any physician who has received any Federal payment or assistance under any program under the Public Health Service Act or the Social Security Act, if the physician examines a patient's prostate gland, to provide information on appropriate diagnostic procedures, including the prostate antigen test, if: (1) the patient is over 50, manifests clinical symptoms, or is at increased risk of prostate cancer. Or (2) the provision of the information is, in the opinion of the physician, medically necessary. Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Public Health Service Act to impose the same requirement as above and to declare that such information may not be prohibited under the terms of: (1) any agreement between the physician and any group health plan, insurance issuer providing group health coverage, or related party. Or (2) any written statement from the plan, issuer, or related party. Amends the Public Health Service Act to declare that such information may not be prohibited under those terms by an issuer in the individual market. Authorizes appropriations to carry out provisions relating to National Cancer Institute prostate cancer research. Requires the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, with regard to prostate cancer, to: (1) conduct and support research on the outcomes, effectiveness, and appropriateness of health services and procedures. And (2) in carrying out provisions relating to the Forum for Quality and Effectiveness in Health Care, provide for the development, review, and updating of clinically relevant guidelines, quality standards, performance measures, and medical review criteria.
State and Local Government Economic Empowerment Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to have money available for purposes of this Act in an amount equal to the product of: (1) the US population, as determined by the Secretary of Commerce on the basis of the 1990 census. And (2) $1,400. Requires that the money be created by having the Secretary and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System enter into a loan agreement whereby: (1) the Board shall lend the US Treasury a sum up to $360 billion at the rate of not more than $72 billion per annum in each of the five years commencing 60 days after this Act's enactment date. And (2) the Secretary shall pay an annual fee to the Board to cover administrative costs that the Board incurs in acting as the agent of the Administrator appointed by the Secretary. Treats any amount made available pursuant to this Act as money created in the sovereign and exclusive capacity of the United States to create money. Specifies that: (1) money created under this section shall not be treated as revenue when it is created or made available to the Administrator, nor when the loans are repaid. (2) the money created and the interest-free loan program established under this Act shall not be treated as budget authority, shall not be subject to apportionment or sequestration other than in accordance with this Act, and shall not be taken into account in the determination of the baseline for any fiscal year. And (3) the disbursement of money created under this Act shall not be treated as an outlay or a budget outlay. Entitles each State, county, township, incorporated municipality, school district, and Indian tribe to obtain a loan from the Administrator, unless such governmental unit is delinquent in repaying a prior loan, subject to specified limitations. Directs the Administrator to issue an interest-free loan from the money created to any such government unit if the Administrator obtains assurances that the proceeds will be used solely for the purpose of: (1) funding capital projects of such unit, including the construction of or improvements to school facilities, streets, water and sewer systems, and public and environmental facilities. Or (2) the cleanup of toxic waste sites or other environmental improvements.
Internet Freedom and Broadband Deployment Act of 1999 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to define high speed data service as a service capable of transmitting electronic information at a rate generally not less than 384 kilobits per second in at least one direction. Prohibits the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and each State, except as expressly provided in this Act, from regulating the rates, charges, terms or conditions for, or entry into the provision of, any high speed data service or Internet access service, or to regulate the facilities used in the provision of such service. Prohibits the FCC from requiring an incumbent (established) local exchange carrier to: (1) provide unbundled access to any network elements used in the provision of any high speed data service, other than those elements described in FCC regulations. Or (2) offer for resale at wholesale rates any high speed data service. States that nothing in this Act shall: (1) limit or affect the authority of any State to regulate voice telephone exchange services. (2) affect the ability of the FCC to retain or modify the exemption from interstate access charges for enhanced service providers. Or (3) prohibit the FCC from modifying the regulation concerning the number of networks subject to its unbundling requirement. Requires each incumbent local exchange carrier to provide: (1) Internet users with the ability to subscribe to and have access to any Internet service provider that interconnects with such carrier's high speed data service. (2) any Internet service provider with the right to acquire necessary facilities and services to facilitate such interconnection. And (3) any Internet service provider with the ability to collocate equipment in order to achieve such interconnection. Includes high speed data service or Internet access service within the definition of incidental interLATA services permitted for a Bell operating company (BOC). States that, until the date a BOC is authorized to offer interLATA services originating in an in-region State, such BOC offering any high speed data service or Internet access service may not, in such State, bill or collect for interLATA voice telecommunications service obtained by means of such high speed data or Internet access service provided by such company.
Rail Passenger Disaster Family Assistance Act of 2001 - Amends Federal transportation law to require the Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, as soon as practicable after being notified of a rail passenger accident involving a major loss of life, to: (1) designate and publicize the name and phone number of a Board employee who shall be a director of family support services responsible for acting as a point of contact within the Federal Government for the families of passengers involved in a rail passenger accident, and a liaison between the rail passenger carrier and the families. And (2) designate an independent nonprofit organization which shall have primary responsibility for coordinating the emotional care and support of the families of passengers involved in such accidents. Declares it shall be the responsibility of the director of family support services to request, as soon as practicable, from the rail passenger carrier involved in an accident a list of the names of the passengers who were aboard the carrier's train. Authorizes a designated organization also to request such list from such carrier. Prohibits the director of family support services and a designated organization from releasing list information to any person, except that information about a passenger may be provided to the passenger's family to the extent considered appropriate by the director or organization. Requires the Board, in the course of its investigation of an accident, to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the families of passengers involved in the accident are: (1) briefed, prior to any public briefing about the accident and any other findings from the investigation. And (2) individually informed of and allowed to attend any public hearings and meetings of the Board about such accident. Prohibits: (1) a person from impeding the ability of the Board or the designated organization to carry out its responsibilities under this Act, or the ability of the families of passengers involved in an accident to have contact with one another. (2) unsolicited communication concerning a potential action for personal injury or wrongful death to be made by an attorney or any potential party to the litigation to an individual injured in an accident, or to a relative of an individual involved in such accident, before the 45th day following the date of the accident. And (3) a State or political subdivision from preventing the employees, agents, or volunteers of an organization from providing mental health and counseling services in the 30-day period beginning on the date of an accident. Directs each rail passenger carrier to submit to the Secretary of Transportation and the Chairman of the Board a plan for addressing the needs of the families of passengers involved in a rail passenger accident resulting in a major loss of life. Shields a rail passenger carrier from liability for damages in any action brought in a Federal or State court arising out of the carrier's performance in preparing or providing a passenger list, or in providing information concerning a train reservation, pursuant to the carrier's plan.
Designates certain contract and associated obligational authorities for the bridge as the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge Preservation Fund which shall be maintained within the Department of Transportation. Requires that such Fund be available to the Secretary for the maintenance, rehabilitation, and expansion of the bridge for keeping it in a condition sufficient to facilitate interstate traffic in an efficient and safe manner. Provides for amounts in the Fund only to be available for those portions of the bridge that are owned by the Federal Government. Sets forth a rule for the replenishment of the Fund. Requires the Secretary to prepare and transmit to Congress an annual report on the bridge's condition. Directs the Secretary, Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia to develop a transportation plan for the Capital Beltway corridor served by the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge project. Requires that the plan establish what level of high occupancy vehicle lanes and transit service should be provided in the corridor and how such service should be accommodated on a replacement bridge. Permits the cost of developing the plan to be paid from the Fund. Requires the balance in the Fund to be available for the construction of a replacement bridge upon certification to Congress by the Secretary that all of the following conditions have been met: (1) the transportation plan has been completed and approved by the Secretary, the Governors of Virginia and Maryland, and the mayor of the District of Columbia. (2) title to the existing bridge has been transferred from the Federal Government to Virginia, Maryland, or both. And (3) Virginia and Maryland have developed a finance plan to pay for all costs of the replacement bridge project in excess of the current Federal payment and have signed an agreement with the Secretary to pay for all cost overruns to the plan . Allows the Secretary, in developing a replacement bridge and its approaches, upon petition by the States of Virginia and Maryland, to waive any Federal highways requirement that the States have determined to cause unreasonable increases in the cost of the project. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the $900 million Federal payment to replace the bridge is the final Federal contribution for that project. (2) any of the Federal payment remaining after completion of the replacement bridge shall be available to pay for costs associated with construction of approaches to it. And (3) all project costs not associated with the bridge component are the responsibility of the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of Maryland.
Congressional Medal of Honor Memorial Coin Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue not more than 50,000 five dollar gold coins and 250,000 one dollar silver coins emblematic of the values and abilities necessary to earn the Congressional Medal of Honor. Requires the Secretary to pay the proceeds from the sale of such coins to the Riverside National Cemetery Support Committee for the purposes of: (1) maintaining the National Medal of Honor Memorial at Riverside National Cemetery. And (2) constructing and maintaining such memorials as the Committee and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may jointly designate.
Health Care OverUse Reform Today Act of 2011 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide for the selection and issuance of best practice guidelines for treatment of medical conditions. Requires the Secretary to contract with a qualified physician consensus-building organization to develop guidelines and issue a rule that provides for the establishment of such guidelines. Prohibits the Secretary from making a rule that includes guidelines other than those submitted by such organization. Requires the Secretary to routinely review guidelines and, as necessary, enter into additional contracts to issue guidelines. Prohibits a court from awarding noneconomic damages or punitive damages in any health care lawsuit with respect to treatment that is consistent with a guideline issued under this Act. Prohibits guidelines from being introduced as evidence of negligence or deviation in the standard of care in any health care lawsuit unless such guidelines have previously been introduced by the defendant. Declares that there shall be no presumption of negligence if a health care provider provides treatment in a manner inconsistent with such guidelines. Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Secretary to award grants to states for the development, implementation, and evaluation of administrative health care tribunals for the resolution of disputes concerning injuries allegedly caused by health care providers. Sets forth provisions governing the operation of such tribunals, including requiring a review of allegations by an expert panel to assess liability.
Lead Exposure Reduction Amendments Act of 2012 - Amends the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) to exclude from the definition of abatement any renovation, remodeling, landscaping, or other activity: (1) the primary purpose of which is to repair, restore, or remodel a structure or dwelling. And (2) that incidentally results in a reduction or elimination of lead-based paint hazards. Removes from the definition of lead-based paint lead levels that may be established by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for paint or surface coating that are not otherwise specified in such definition. Requires the Administrator to: (1) conduct a lead-based paint certification study prior to proposing any new regulation applicable to target housing or public or commercial buildings constructed before 1978. And (2) complete and publish such study no later than a year prior to proposing any new regulation applicable to such structure or dwelling. Exempts from such regulations emergency renovations that result from a sudden, unexpected event that presents a risk to the public health or safety or threatens to cause significant damage to equipment or property if not attended to immediately. Prohibits such regulation from requiring post-abatement clearance testing. Requires the Administrator, in promulgating regulations relating to renovation or remodeling activities in target housing in which the owner resides, to include a provision that permits the owner to authorize the renovation or remodeling contractor to forego compliance with such regulation if: (1) no pregnant woman or child under the age of six resides in such housing. And (2) the owner certifies that the renovation or remodeling project is to be carried out at the target housing of the owner, that no such woman or child resides in such housing, and that such contractor will be exempt from employing the work practices required by such regulation. Exempts contractors from liability resulting from any misrepresentation of the owner of the target housing. Requires the Administrator to: (1) establish a process by which the Administrator shall identify and approve a commercially available lead-based paint test kit that is inexpensive, does not require special training, and enables users to determine the presence of lead at the job site. And (2) suspend implementation of such regulation relating to renovation and remodeling until the Administrator identifies and approves one or more test kits that meet such criteria.
Consumer Credit Card Protection Act of 2005 - Amends the Truth in Lending Act to prohibit a creditor from using adverse information concerning a consumer as the basis for increasing any annual percentage rate of interest applicable to a credit card account of the consumer under an open end consumer credit plan, or to remove or increase any introductory annual percentage rate of interest applicable to such account, for reasons other than actions or omissions of the consumer that are directly related to such account . Expands mandatory disclosures governing an open end consumer credit plan to include clear and conspicuous minimum payment terms with respect to the outstanding balance on the account, including prescribed details expressed in tabular format and in close proximity. Requires a creditor to furnish advance notice as a prerequisite to increasing rates or imposing fees on a consumer credit card account.
Senior Citizens' Freedom to Work Act of 2017 This bill amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to remove limitations on the amount of outside income that an OASDInbsp, beneficiary may earn without incurring a reduction in benefits.
Redundant Remapping Reform Act of 2011 - Prohibits the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) from updating or publishing a National Flood Insurance Program rate map during a covered period with respect to an area protected by a levee that is undergoing accreditation, planning, construction, or rehabilitation. Instructs the Administrator to publish a notice to be used by owners of qualified levees to disclose to persons affected by such levees. Requires owners of qualified levees to provide such notice to each person identified as affected by the qualified levee.
District of Columbia Full Self-Government Act - Declares that: (1) this Act shall have no effect on existing law or regulation unless otherwise repealed or amended by this Act or an Act of Congress. And (2) the legislative power of the District shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation within the District consistent with the US Constitution and the provisions of this Act, subject to all the restrictions and limitations imposed upon the states by the Constitution. Establishes a Council of the District of Columbia and the Office of the Mayor. Prescribes requirements for treatment of District employees formerly covered by the Federal Civil Service System. Prohibits the Mayor's planning responsibility from extending to federal and District international projects and developments. Prescribes requirements granting the President emergency control of the Metropolitan Police Department. Declares that the District's judicial powers and the provisions of the District charter applicable to District judges and courts shall be those set forth in the District of Columbia Home Rule Act as in effect on the enactment of this Act. Subjects the process by which the District develops and enacts its fiscal year budget and related financial management activities to such laws as the District may enact. Declares that the full faith and credit of the United States is not pledged for any District obligations, nor is the United States responsible or liable for them. Exempts all District bonds and notes from federal taxation, except estate, inheritance, and gift taxes. Authorizes certain entities to invest in District bonds and notes. Reserves Congress the right to exercise constitutional authority as legislature for the District. Repeals the District of Columbia Home Rule Act , but not any provision of law amended or repealed by such Act.
Federal Employees Health Benefits Access Act - Prohibits a Government health services contract from being made or a plan approved unless the carrier agrees to offer to the general public the same benefits as would be offered under such contract or plan to Federal employees and annuitants and their family members. Requires premiums for coverage to be established in conformance with such requirements as the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) shall prescribe. Specifies that in no event shall this Act's enactment result in any: (1) increase in the level of individual or Government contributions required, including copayments or deductibles, (2) decrease in the types of benefits offered. Or (3) other change that would adversely affect the coverage afforded to employees and annuitants and their family members. Permits a carrier to file an application with OPM setting forth reasons why it, or a plan provided by such carrier, should be excluded from the requirements of this Act. Allows OPM, in reviewing any such application, to consider such factors as: (1) any bona fide enrollment restrictions which would make the application of this Act inappropriate. (2) whether compliance would jeopardize the financial solvency of the plan or carrier or otherwise compromise its ability to offer health benefits. And (3) the anticipated duration of the requested exclusion and what efforts the plan or carrier proposes to take in order to be able to comply with this Act. Requires a claim for payment or reimbursement to be submitted on a standard form or in a standard manner as may be required by OPM in relation to health benefit plans. Directs OPM to: (1) prepare information relating to the use of advance directives regarding the type or intensity of care which an individual desires in the event that such individual becomes unable to communicate by reason of incapacity due to illness or injury. And (2) require, as a condition for contract approval, that appropriate provisions be included so that such information may be made available to enrollees of the plan involved. Requires OPM to conduct a demonstration project to assess the feasibility and desirability of offering the use of arbitration, instead of litigation, to resolve medical malpractice claims arising out of covered health care services. Sets forth provisions regarding project requirements and evaluation.
Peopling of America Theme Study Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to prepare and submit to Congress a national historic landmark theme study on the peopling of America to identify regions, areas, trails, districts, communities, sites, buildings, structures, objects, organizations, societies, and cultures that: (1) best illustrate and commemorate key events or decisions affecting the peopling of America. And (2) can provide a basis for the preservation and interpretation of the peopling of America that has shaped US culture and society. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with educational institutions, professional associations, or other knowledgeable entities to prepare the study and promote cooperative arrangements and programs relating to the peopling of America. Authorizes appropriations.
Public Health Coordinating Council Act - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a National Public Health Coordinating Council to: (1) facilitate and strengthen sustained communication and coordination across federal agencies and offices regarding public health. And (2) review and make recommendations concerning socioeconomic and environmental policies to reduce health disparities and improve the public's health. Requires the Secretary to determine the duties of the Council, which shall include: (1) reviewing existing federal health programs and policies for the availability of equitable public health services across communities. (2) making recommendations for the modification of such federal programs and policies to improve public health. And (3) seeking to strengthen the impact of federal public health efforts by improving interagency collaboration and promoting a dialogue on broad public health issues.
Violence Against Children Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prescribe penalties to be imposed for injuring or attempting to injure a person under 18 years of age under circumstances in which: (1) the conduct occurs during the course of, or as a result of, the travel of the defendant or victim across a State line or national border. Or (2) in connection with such conduct, the defendant employs a weapon that has traveled in interstate or foreign commerce. Directs the: (1) United States Sentencing Commission to review and amend its guidelines to provide enhanced penalties when the victim of a Federal crime is under 18. And (2) the Comptroller General to review State penalties and sentencing guidelines for crimes against children. Requires the Attorney General: (1) at the request of a State, Indian tribal government, or local government, to provide assistance in the criminal investigation or prosecution of any felony crime of violence against a child. And (2) to award grants to develop and strengthen effective law enforcement and prosecution of crimes against children and to provide education, prevention, intervention, and victims' assistance services regarding crimes against children. Requires each State receiving: (1) law enforcement grants under this Act to have in place a statewide AMBER Alert communications network for child abduction cases and to use the National Incident-Based Reporting System. (2) education, prevention, and victims' assistance grants to have in effect a statute allowing a parent to leave a newborn baby at a hospital anonymously. And (3) certain allotments for child welfare allotments to submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a report on the State's funded program, including the process for maintaining records and verifying the well-being of the children under the State's care.
Gasoline Tax Relief Act of 2006 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to suspend excise taxes on diesel and other highway motor fuels during specified periods when weekly retail gasoline prices as published by the Department of Energy exceed $2.75 per gallon.
Iran Sanctions Enhancement Act of 2007 - Amends the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 to direct the President to impose two or more sanctions under such Act if a person has, with actual knowledge: (1) made an investment of $20 million or more that directly and significantly contributed to Iran's ability to develop its petroleum resources. Or (2) on or after December 31, 2007, provided Iran with refined petroleum resources or engaged in an activity that could contribute to the enhancement of Iran's ability to import refined petroleum resources. Extends existing presidential waiver authority to such activities. Directs the President to report to the appropriate congressional committees every six months on such activities.
Quit Smoking Incentive and Opportunity Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a limited credit for the qualified tobacco use cessation expenses of a taxpayer, the taxpayer's spouse, or any dependent of the taxpayer.
Dental and Optometric Care Access Act or the DOC Access Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to prohibit group health plans and individual health insurance coverage from setting rates for items and services provided by a doctor of optometry, of dental surgery, or of dental medicine for which the plan or insurer does not pay a substantial amount. An agreement between a plan or insurer and such a doctor: (1) may only be changed with the doctor's acknowledgement and acceptance, and (2) may not last longer than two years if the agreement is for limited scope dental or vision benefits. Such a doctor must be allowed to participate in a: (1) plan or coverage without accepting terms for ancillary services or procedures, and (2) provider network without participating in a specific limited scope dental or vision benefit plan. Plans and insurers may not: (1) directly communicate with an enrolled individual in a manner that interferes with an existing doctor-patient relationship or a state or federal requirement, or (2) restrict such a doctor's choice of laboratories or suppliers. The bill establishes a private right of action for a person adversely affected by a violation of this Act.
Commonsense Reporting and Verification Act of 2015 This bill requires the Department of Treasury to implement and maintain a voluntary prospective reporting system for employers subject to the employer mandate under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Employers satisfy the information return requirement if they voluntarily report general information about the health coverage offered to full-time employees. Employers satisfy the employee statement requirement if they provide statements to employees after receiving exchange notification that employee or spouse or dependent enrolled in a qualified health plan or qualified for premium tax credits or cost-sharing subsidies. The legislation amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) permit employers and health insurance issuers that provide minimum essential coverage to submit an information return with names and birth dates of covered dependents if the employer or health insurance issuer does not already collect or maintain their taxpayer identification numbers, and (2) permit electronic delivery of employee statement if employee consented previously to electronic delivery of other notices and does not refuse consent in writing. It directs the Government Accountability Office to: (1) evaluate the exchange notification and appeals processes for employers whose employee or spouse or dependent enrolls in a qualified health plan or qualifies for premium tax credits or cost-sharing subsidies, and (2) evaluate the prospective reporting system functionality. The legislation permits a health insurance exchange to automatically reenroll an individual into a qualified health plan after annually redetermining the individual's eligibility for premium tax credits or cost-sharing subsidies.
United Nations Rapid Deployment Act of 2001 - Requires the President to direct the US representative to the United Nations (UN) to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to urge the UN to: (1) establish a United Nations Rapid Deployment Police and Security Force (UNRDPSF) that is rapidly deployable under the authority of the UN Security Council, and that meets other specified requirements, (2) recruit UNRDPSF personnel. And (3) provide equitable and reliable funding. Requires the President, in order to promote the development of human and material resources for UN peacekeeping operations as recommended by the August 2000 Report of the Panel on UN Peace Operations , to: (1) direct the Secretary of State and the US representative to the UN to encourage UN member nations to enter into partnerships with one another to form Rapid Deployment Brigades which could develop operational capabilities to fully deploy peacekeeping operations within a specified time. And (2) direct the Secretary of Defense to study the advisability of and feasibility of using interim combat brigade teams as part of the Rapid Deployment Brigades.
Retailers and Entertainers Lacey Implementation and Enforcement Fairness Act or the RELIEF Act - Amends the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 to: (1) make such Act inapplicable to any plant that was imported into the United States before May 22, 2008, or any finished plant or plant product the assembly and processing of which was completed before such date. (2) limit the application of plant importation declaration requirements to plants that are entered for consumption. And (3) exclude from declaration requirements a plant product that is derived from a tree unless the product is solid wood . Provides that: (1) civil forfeiture provisions that prohibit any person from asserting an ownership interest in contraband or other property that it is illegal to possess, or that prohibit the federal government from being required to return contraband or other property that the person from whom the property was seized may not legally possess, shall not apply to plants or plant products. And (2) civil forfeiture provisions of such Act are the sole authority for civil seizure or forfeiture actions alleging, or predicated upon, a violation of such Act. Prohibits any person from importing, exporting, transporting, selling, receiving, acquiring, or purchasing in interstate or foreign commerce, or any person within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of the United States from possessing, a plant taken, possessed, transported, or sold: (1) without the payment of appropriate royalties, taxes, or stumpage fees required for the plant by any law or regulation of any state or any foreign law that is directed at the protection, conservation, and management of plants. And (2) in violation of any limitation under any law or regulation of any state, or under foreign law, governing the export or transshipment of plants and that is directed at the protection, conservation, and management of plants Limits the application of a civil penalty under such Act for violations of foreign laws to violations of foreign laws that are directed at the protection, conservation, and management of plants. Requires the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Commerce, as program responsibilities are vested pursuant to the provisions of Reorganization Plan Numbered 4 of 1970, to review the implementation of plant declarations with 180 days. Requires the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to report on plant declaration requirements, including an evaluation of the feasibility of creating a publicly available database of laws of foreign countries from which plants are exported.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: NTSB Amendments Title II: Intermodal Transportation Title I: NTSB Amendments - National Transportation Safety Board Amendments of 1996 - Amends Federal transportation law to prohibit the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and any agency receiving information from it from disclosing: (1) records or information relating to its participation in foreign aircraft accident investigations, except in certain circumstances. Or (2) voluntarily provided safety-related information unrelated to the exercise of the NTSB's accident or incident investigation authority, if disclosure would inhibit the voluntary provision of that type of information. Authorizes the NTSB to conduct training of its employees in subjects necessary for the proper performance of accident investigations. Authorizes appropriations to the Board through FY 1999. Title II: Intermodal Transportation - Intermodal Safe Container Transportation Amendments Act of 1996 - Amends Federal transportation law to revise the prior notification requirements for intermodal freight transportation. Requires a person who tenders to a first carrier that is a motor carrier a container or trailer with a gross cargo weight of more than 29,000 pounds for intermodal transportation to give prior notification of the cargo weight and a reasonable description of its contents to the motor carrier. Allows such notification to be made by telephone, and allows the required certification of container or trailer contents to be electronic. Sets forth administrative and civil penalties for persons who inaccurately transfer certification information. Allows a motor carrier to presume that the gross cargo weight of a container or trailer is under 29,001 pounds if it receives no certification before or when a loaded intermodal container or trailer is tendered to it. Declares that a copy of a certification is not required to accompany the intermodal container or trailer. Requires a motor carrier that knows that the gross cargo weight of an intermodal container or trailer violates State vehicle weight laws to give notice to the operator of a leased vehicle that transports such items. Requires the motor carrier to reimburse the operator of the leased vehicle that is fined because of a violation of a State's gross vehicle weight laws. Adds to the circumstances giving certain persons a lien against the contents of the container or trailer as a result of a violation of a State's gross vehicle weight laws. Includes among such circumstances: (1) failure of the party required to provide certification of gross cargo weight to the first carrier to provide it. (2) failure of the party required to forward such certification to forward it. Or (3) error in the transfer of information on the certification to another document.
Iraq Strategic Agreement Review Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and any other necessary representative of the executive branch of the US government to begin consultations with the appropriate congressional committees and leadership on any potential long-term security, economic, or political agreement (agreement) with the government of Iraq. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) full Iraqi sovereignty is in the US national interest. And (2) any agreement that is not in the form of a treaty with respect to which the Senate has given its advice and consent to ratification under Article II of the Constitution of the United States does not have the force and effect of law. Prohibits obligating or expending funds for the implementation of any agreement with the government of Iraq unless the agreement is in the form of a treaty with respect to which the Senate has given its advice and consent to ratification under Article II.
Adult Education Instructor Recruitment and Retention Act of 2002 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish student loan forgiveness programs for adult education instructors.
Children's Environmental Health Protection Act - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish the Task Force to Address Environmental Health and Safety Risks to Children to: (1) recommend to the President federal strategies to improve children's environmental health and safety. (2) develop a review of existing and planned data resources and a proposed plan for use in ensuring that researchers and federal research agencies have access to information on federal research that relates to adverse health risk in children resulting from exposure to environmental health and safety risks. And (3) submit a biennial report on research, data, or other information that would enhance understanding and analysis of, and response to, environmental health and safety risks.
Dangerous Explosives Background Checks Requirement Act - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit a person other than a Federal explosive materials licensee or permittee from knowingly: (1) transporting, shipping, causing to be transported, or receiving explosive materials. Or (2) distributing explosive materials to any person other than such a licensee or permittee . Repeals provisions permitting distribution to a resident of the State where distribution is made and in which the licensee is licensed to do business or a State contiguous thereto if permitted by the law of the State of the purchaser's residence. Prohibits a licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer from transferring explosive materials to a permittee unless specified conditions are met, including that: (1) before the completion of the transfer, the licensee contacts the national instant criminal background check system. And (2) either the system provides the licensee with a unique identification number or five days have elapsed since the licensee contacted the system and the system has not notified the licensee that the receipt of explosive materials by the transferee would violate Federal law. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) penalties, (2) immunity from liability. (3) information to be supplied to individuals determined to be ineligible to receive explosive materials, and (4) the remedy for erroneous denial of explosive materials.
Emergency Mortgage Loan Modification Act of 2008 - Establishes a standard for loan modifications or workout plans for pools of certain residential mortgage loans. States that the servicer of such pooled loans owes a duty to the securitization vehicle to maximize recovery of proceeds for the benefit of all investors and holders of beneficial interests in the pooled loans, in the aggregate, and not to any individual party or group of parties. Deems the loan servicer to be acting on behalf of the securitization vehicle in the best interest of all such investors and holders if the servicer makes certain loss mitigation efforts for a loan in or facing payment default in the reasonable belief that the particular modification, workout plan, or other mitigation actions will maximize the net present value to be realized over that which would be realized through foreclosure. Declares that, absent contractual provisions to the contrary, a servicer acting in a manner consistent with such duty shall not be liable to specified persons for entering into a qualified loan modification or workout plan for loss mitigation purposes. Defines qualified loan modification or workout plan as one that: (1) is scheduled to remain in place until the borrower sells or refinances the property, or for at least five years from the date of adoption of the plan, whichever is sooner. (2) does not provide for a repayment schedule that results in negative amortization at any time. And (3) does not require the borrower to pay additional points and fees. States that, for purposes of a qualified loan modification or workout plan, negative amortization does not include capitalization of delinquent interest and arrearages. Defines securitization vehicle as a trust, corporation, partnership, limited liability entity, special purpose entity, or other structure that: (1) is the issuer, or is created by the issuer, of mortgage pass-through certificates, participation certificates, mortgage-backed securities, or other similar securities backed by a pool of assets that includes residential mortgage loans, and (2) holds such loans.
Medicaid Reform and Personal Responsibility Act of 2017 This bill requires state Medicaid programs tonbsp, impose a work requirementnbsp, upon enrollees who arenbsp, able-bodied adults without dependents. Specifically, such enrollees mustnbsp. Spend at least 20 hours per week working in a job, receiving on-the-job training, obtaining job skills, or doing community service. Such enrollees must also annually register with thenbsp. State as employed or as unemployed and actively looking for employment.
Big Cat Public Safety Act of 2016 This bill amends the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981 to prohibit any person from breeding or possessing any live animal of any prohibited wildlife species . Breeding means facilitating propagation or reproduction , or failing to prevent propagation or reproduction. The bill extends forfeiture provisions to fish, wildlife, or plants that are bred or possessed. The bill revises the list of entities that are exempt from Lacey Act prohibitions to include: institutions accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums. Certain facilities that have an active written contract with an Association of Zoos and Aquariums Species Survival Plan or Taxon Advisory Group for breeding prohibited wildlife species. Persons who do not allow the transportation and display of prohibited wildlife species off-site. Current owners of animals that were born before this bill's enactment if the animals are registered with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service within 180 days. And certain traveling circuses that hold Class C licenses under the Animal Welfare Act. Entities exempt from Lacey Act prohibitions must require that current owners and circuses not allow direct contact between the public and the prohibited wildlife species.
Clean Up Earmarks Act of 2010 or CUE Act of 2010 - Requires the Comptroller General to submit an audit to Congress of 5 of Senate earmarks for the current fiscal year chosen at random. Requires the audit to include: (1) an adequate number of earmarks of small and large programs. (2) 50 of earmarks that have been requested by at least one Democratic Senator and one Republican Senator, respectively. And (3) 50 of earmarks requested by members and 50 of those requested by non-members, respectively, of the Senate Committee on Appropriations. Amends Rule XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate to require an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Members of the Senate to: (1) authorize a Senator to move to waive any or all points of order with respect to a pending conference report that constitutes new directed spending provisions. And (2) sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair regarding such point of order. Requires the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives to take necessary steps to improve the website earmarks. gov to: (1) make earmarks more easily searchable by the requesting Member of Congress and by any federally registered lobbyist who requested them. And (2) ensure that the website is user friendly and does not include extraneous information. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the subcommittees of the Committee should hold separate hearings on earmark requests in excess of $1 million and of $5 million, respectively, during which Members who requested them should be invited to testify. Amends Rule XLIV to require all congressionally directed spending items to be included in the text of an appropriations or authorization bill and any related conference report. Requires each request by a Senator for a congressionally directed spending item for such a bill to be posted on the Senator's website within 48 hours, including specified related information. Makes it out of order to consider an appropriations or authorization bill, amendment, or conference report if it contains a congressionally directed spending item for a private for-profit entity. Requires a Senator to: (1) require any eligible entity that requests an earmark submission from the Senator to include a written disclosure in that earmark request of the identity of any for-profit, private company that might directly benefit financially from the award of the earmark. And (2) submit the disclosed beneficiary identity in writing to the Committee with any corresponding earmarks request made by the Senator, and include the beneficiary disclosure in the disclosure of earmarks required to be posted on the Senator's website. Amends the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 to require reports by registered lobbyists to include, for each client, the amount of congressional earmarks requested from Congress on the client's behalf and a detailed accounting of each such earmark.
Television Violence Reduction Through Parental Empowerment Act of 1993 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require that any television with a screen of at least 13 inches which is manufactured, or imported for use, in the United States be equipped with circuitry designed to enable viewers to block the display of channels, programs, time slots, and all programs with a common rating. Prohibits shipping in interstate commerce, manufacturing, assembling, or importing any such television except pursuant to rules prescribed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Requires such rules to provide performance and display standards for such blocking technology. Directs the FCC, as new video technology is developed, to ensure that blocking service continues to be available to consumers.
Bullying and Gang Prevention for School Safety and Crime Reduction Act of 2005 - Amends: (1) the Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act to cover bullying and gang prevention. And (2) the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize accountability-based programs designed to enhance school safety, which may include research-based bullying and gang prevention programs.
Covering People With Pre-Existing Conditions Act of 2014 - Requires each state to mitigate the health costs of high risk individuals in the state through a state reinsurance program or a state high risk pool.
Amends the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to set forth parameters within which: (1) Federal home loan banks may make advances to a nonmember mortgagee for community lending purposes. And (2) each Federal home loan bank shall establish a Community Lending Fund to facilitate community lending by its members and nonmember mortgagees.
Drunk Driving Repeat Offender Prevention Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation to withhold specified graduated percentages of a state's apportionment of certain federal-aid highway funds for FY2013-FY2015 if the state has not enacted and is not enforcing a law requiring the installation of an ignition interlock device for a minimum of 180 days on each motor vehicle operated by an individual convicted of driving while intoxicated or driving under the influence.
Continued Participation Pension Act of 1996 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to provide for continued participation under a defined benefit plan for employees who are terminated from employment within seven years of attaining normal retirement age under the plan.
Ending Homelessness Act of 2016 This bill amends the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act to make additional FY2017-FY2021 appropriations available for: (1) emergency relief grants to address the unmet needs of homeless populations in jurisdictions with the highest need, (2) rental assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937 for persons and households who are homeless, and (3) homeless outreach and coordination services. Beginning in FY2017, the bill also provides annual additional funds for: (1) the Housing Trust Fund to provide grants to states for use to increase homeownership and the supply of rental housing for extremely low- and very low-income families, including homeless families. And (2) incremental project-based voucher or rental assistance under the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992. When the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) allocates grants to states from the Housing Trust Fund for rental housing, the dwelling units must be subject to legally binding commitments to ensure that the residing family's contribution toward rent does not exceed 30 of the family's adjusted income. The bill provides funding to HUD to expand the Healthcare and Housing (H2) Systems Integration Initiative by assisting states and localities in coordinating policies among Medicaid programs, behavioral health providers, housing providers, and finance support services for homeless persons. The bill also makes permanent: (1) certain housing assistance programs under the Homeless Assistance Act, and (2) the US Interagency Council on Homelessness.
Indian Tribal Development Corporation Feasibility Study Act of 2004 - Amends the Native American Business Development, Trade Promotion, and Tourism Act of 2000 to direct the Secretary of Commerce to establish the Tribal Development Corporation Feasibility Study Group to study and report to Congress on the feasibility of establishing an Indian Tribal Development Corporation. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2005 and 2006.
Clearwater Basin Project Act - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to establish and maintain the Clearwater Advisory Panel (CAP), which shall provide advice and recommendations to the Forest Service regarding the Clearwater Basin pilot project within the Clearwater and Nez Perce National Forests, Idaho. States that the CAP shall: (1) make recommendations regarding activities for high priority implementation, (2) provide early and continuous coordination with Federal officials. And (3) provide for public input into its proceedings. Authorizes the Secretary to conduct the Project. Directs the CAP, in consultation with and receiving technical assistance from the applicable Forest Supervisor, to develop and submit for approval from the Forest Supervisor five-year schedules of high priority activities for the Project . Requires that the activities included in such schedules be consistent with the applicable forest land and resource management plan. Directs the Forest Service to complete any applicable National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) procedures for the approval of the activities at the site-specific, project level. Directs the CAP to consult with the Nez Perce Tribe in developing and recommending each schedule. Directs the Forest Supervisor to issue a project or activity decision document regarding approval of the recommended schedule in accordance with NEPA and other applicable procedures. Provides for the schedules and activities authorized under this section to supplement certain other schedules, plans, and projects or other activities authorized and implemented under other law.
Federal Asthma Assessment and State Tracking Act of 2002 - Amends the Head Start Act to authorize early Head Start and Head Start programs to carry out asthma screening programs. Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to local educational agencies for asthma screening programs for public school children. Amends the Social Security Act to state that nothing under such Act or other law shall be construed as prohibiting or restricting Medicaid or school-based assistance for children receiving asthma screening tests. Requires the Secretary to develop, in conjunction with State medicaid programs under the Social Security Act, a demonstration program for model asthma treatment centers. Directs that the centers be based on the treatment models developed by the Inner City Asthma Program sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. Directs the Secretary to give priority in developing the program to communities where the prevalence of uncontrolled asthma is high.
Public Servant Priority Placement Act of 1995 - Amends Federal civil service law to require the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to establish a Government-wide priority placement program, and each Federal agency to establish a similar agency-wide program, for Federal employees affected by a reduction in force.
North Korean Human Rights Reauthorization Act of 2008 - Expresses the sense of Congress with respect to the resettlement of North Korean refugees. Amends the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 to authorize appropriations through FY2012 for: (1) activities to support human rights and democracy and freedom of information in North Korea. And (2) assistance to North Koreans who are outside North Korea. Directs the Broadcasting Board of Governors to report respecting US broadcasting to North Korea and the extent to which the Board has achieved the goal of 12-hour-per-day broadcasting to North Korea. States that the Special Envoy on North Korean human rights issues in North Korea shall have the rank of ambassador. Extends the Special Envoy's annual congressional reporting requirement through FY2012. Extends the United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) congressional reporting requirement respecting US humanitarian assistance to North Koreans and efforts to improve transparency and monitoring in the provision of such assistance inside North Korea through 2012. Sets forth specified reporting provisions.
Caring Family Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an additional exemption for dependents, residing with the taxpayer, with long-term care needs who are over the age of 60.
Amends the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 to establish a National Electric System Public Benefits Fund, administered by the National Electric System Public Benefits Board to provide matching funds to States for the support of eligible public purpose programs. Confers oversight responsibility over the Board upon the Secretary of Energy. Requires each electric power generation facility owner or operator, as a condition of transmitting power to any transmitting utility, to contribute funds determined by the Board to be necessary to generate revenues in each calendar year equal to one-half of the aggregate cost of implementing certain public purpose programs. Requires the Board to institute a rulemaking proceeding governing creation and administration of a Public Benefits Program. Authorizes any State to establish one or more public purpose programs and apply for matching funds under the Public Benefits Program. Emphasizes State discretion to elect participation in such Program. Expresses the sense of the Congress that such Program shall not replace or supersede any other existing programs that support or encourage conservation and energy efficiency, renewable energy, universal and affordable service, or research and development.
Holocaust Survivors Assistance Act of 2011 - Amends the Older Americans Act of 1965 to: (1) include specifically within its purview older Americans who are Holocaust survivors. (2) authorize the Assistant Secretary for Aging of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to designate within the Administration of Aging an individual who is to have responsibility for such individuals. And (3) create a grant program to increase and improve transportation services for older Americans, with preference for Holocaust survivors.
Marine Mammal Protection Act Amendments of 2002 - Amends the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to grant limited permission for a marine mammal to be exported from the United States, including in cases where an Indian, Aleut or Eskimo residing in Alaska exports the animal as part of a cultural exchange. Requires reduction plans to track the number of animals from strategic stocks being incidentally lethally taken or seriously injured each year through recreational fishing , and to publish proposals for reducing such incidents within a stock under certain specified conditions. Requires research on the removal and control of nuisance pinnipeds, including on the development of new technologies to deter such creatures. Authorizes appropriations for the Marine Mammal Commission through FY 2007. Renews the Scrimshaw Exemption for the eight-year period beginning October 31, 1999. Permits emergency assistance to tow a whale captured in a legal traditional subsistence whale hunt off the coast of Alaska if a request for such assistance is made by a federally-recognized subsistence whale hunting organization or by a member of such an organization. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to issue a permit for importation of polar bear parts from bears taken in sport hunts in Canada before February 18, 1997 . Makes it unlawful for anyone under US jurisdiction to release any captive marine mammal unless authorized under specified provisions of the Code.
One Strike You're Out, Part II Act - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 with regard to section 8 housing, and the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 with regard to federally assisted housing, to authorize denial of occupancy assistance or occupancy to criminal offender-applicants. Amends such Acts to provide for termination of tenancy for criminal activity or activity that threatens the safety or peaceful enjoyment of others. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to make adult applicant and tenant criminal records available to owners of federally assisted housing under specified circumstances.
Hippocratic Oath and Patient Protection Act of 1996 - Prohibits health carriers, in contracts with providers or enrollees, from: (1) preventing or limiting provider communications to a patient or the public. (2) operating an incentive plan that does not meet requirements of specified provisions of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. Or (3) including a provision to indemnify a carrier against liability from an action brought by or for an enrollee or provider for damage caused to the enrollee or provider by the carrier. Requires carriers to disclose in plain English: (1) a list of all services and benefits offered, (2) procedures used by the plan. And (3) any existing incentive plan. Mandates a civil monetary penalty and authorizes a private cause of action for violations.
Pink Tax Repeal Act This bill prohibits the sale of substantially similar services or consumer products from the same manufacturer if they are priced differently based on the gender of the individuals to whom the products are marketed or intended or for whom the services are marketed, performed, or offered. A difference in coloring among consumer products shall not be construed as a substantial difference. Violations shall be treated as unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act. The Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general are authorized to enforce against such violations.
Supporting America's Charities Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to make permanent: (1) the tax deduction for charitable contributions by individuals and corporations of real property interests for conservation purposes, and (2) tax-free distributions from individual retirement accounts (IRAs) for charitable purposes. Allows a tax deduction for charitable contributions for conservation purposesnbsp. Of property conveyed under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act by an Alaska Native Corporation. Modifies the tax deduction for charitiable contributions of food inventory to: (1) increase the amount of deductible food inventory contributions that taxpayers other than C corporations may make in any taxable year from 10 to 15 of their aggregate net income and to limit such amount for a C corporation to 15 of its taxable income. (2) permit a taxpayer who is not required to account for inventories or capitalize indirect costs to elect, solely for purposes of computing the amount of such deduction, to treat the basis of any apparently wholesome food as equal to 25 of the fair market value of such food and to set forth a formula for determining the fair market value of such food, and (3) make such deduction, as modified, permanent.
Digital Television Transition Extension Act of 2009 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 and the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005 to extend for approximately four months the deadlines related to the transition from analog to digital television broadcasting. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to extend for 116 days the terms of the licenses for recovered spectrum. Requires, on request, the reissue of any household digital-to-analog converter box coupons that expired without being redeemed. Requires expediting the delivery of household digital-to-analog converter box coupons by sending them via presorted first class mail. Allows a station to terminate analog broadcasting before the date established by law for termination of all full power analog station licenses. Requires the FCC to permit public safety entities to use spectrum thus relinquished if the FCC determines that such use does not cause harmful interference to full-power television stations in the analog or digital service. Extends until September 30, 2012 the FCC's spectrum auction authority.
Transparency and Security in Mortgage Registration Act of 2010 - Amends the National Housing Act to prohibit the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation from purchasing, acquiring, newly lending on the security of, newly investing in securities consisting of, or otherwise newly dealing in any Mortgage Electronic Registration System, Inc. (MERS) mortgage or mortgages. Prohibits the Government National Mortgage Association from newly guaranteeing the payment of principal of or interest on any trust certificate or other security based or backed by a trust or pool that contains, or purchase or acquire, any MERS mortgage. Directs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae to require all their current MERS mortgages to be assigned to the proper servicer, holder, or creditor. Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to study and report to Congress to analyze and determine: (1) the impacts of the lack of electronic records and uniform standards found in local land title recordation systems currently used in the various states. (2) any progress states have made in developing electronic land title recordation systems containing uniform standards. (3) the current oversight role of the federal government in the transfer and recordation of land titles. And (4) the feasibility of creating a federal land title recordation system for property transfers that would maintain all previous records of the land-property without invalidating, interfering with, or preempting state real property law governing the transfer and perfection of land title.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to with respect to the income exclusion for employer-provided educational assistance programs to: (1) make such exclusion permanent. And (2) include graduate school assistance. Provides an income-based deduction for interest on qualified education loans incurred on behalf of a taxpayer or spouse . Sets forth reporting requirements for persons in the business of receiving interest from such loans.
Senior's Health Care Plan Protection Act of 2015 It is the intent of Congress to: (1) continue to study and request input on the effects of socioeconomic status and dual-eligible populations on the five-star quality rating system for Medicare Advantage (MA) plans before reforming it, and, pending study and input results, (2) delay Centers for Medicare amp. Medicaid (CMS) authority to terminate MA plan contracts solely on the basis of performance under the five-star rating system. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) may not, through the end of plan year 2018, terminate a contract with respect to the offering of an MA plan by an MA organization solely because the plan has failed to achieve a minimum quality rating under the five-star rating system. This bill amends part C (MedicareChoice) of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSAct) to direct HHS to revise for 2017, and periodically afterwards, the system for risk adjustments to payments to MedicareChoice organizations so that an individual's risk score takes into account the number of chronic conditions with which the individual has been diagnosed. HHS must, including an actuarial opinion of the CMS Chief Actuary, evaluate the impacts of: including two years of data to compare the models used to determine the risk scores for 2013 and 2014, removing the diagnosis codes related to chronic kidney disease in the 2014 risk adjustment model, and including 10 of encounter data in computing payment for 2016 and CMS readiness to incorporate encounter data in risk scores. HHS shall also analyze the best practices of MA plans to slow disease progression related to chronic kidney disease. HHS shall then, if appropriate, make revisions to the risk adjustment system, based on such an evaluation or analysis, to better reflect and appropriately weight for the population served. Congress declares that: the five-star quality rating system for MA plans lacks proper accounting for the socioeconomic status of plan enrollees and the extent to which those plans serve individuals also eligible for medical assistance under SSAct title XIX (Medicaid). And Congress will work with CMS and stakeholders, including beneficiary groups and managed care organizations, to ensure that the five-star quality rating system for MA plans properly accounts for the socioeconomic status of plan enrollees and the extent to which plans serve them. It is also the sense of Congress that HHS should: periodically monitor and improve the risk adjustment model for payments to MA organizations to ensure that it accurately accounts for beneficiary risk. Closely examine and adjust as necessary the current MA risk adjustment methodology to ensure that plans enrolling beneficiaries with the greatest health care needs receive adequate reimbursement to deliver high-quality care and other services to help beneficiaries avoid costly complications and further progression of chronic conditions. And reconsider the implementation of changes in the MA risk adjustment methodology finalized for 2016 and, to the extent appropriate, use the risk methodology finalized in 2015 for one additional year.
End Trafficking in Government Contracting Act of 2012 - Amends the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 to expand the authority of a federal agency to terminate a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement involving grantees or contractors who engage in severe forms of trafficking in persons to include grantees or contractors who: (1) engage in acts that directly support or advance trafficking in persons, (2) destroy an employee's immigration documents or fail to repatriate such employee upon the end of employment, (3) solicit persons for employment under false pretenses, (4) charge recruited employees exorbitant placement fees, or (5) provide inhumane living conditions. Requires the Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking to monitor all known cases and activities involving trafficking in persons that are reported to certain officials of the Department of Defense (DOD). Prohibits the head of an executive agency from entering into a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement valued at $1 million or more if performance will predominantly be conducted overseas unless a representative of the recipient of such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement certifies that the recipient has implemented a plan and procedures to prevent trafficking in persons. Requires a contracting or grant officer of an executive agency who receives credible evidence that a recipient of a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement has engaged in trafficking in persons or other prohibited activities to request the agency's Inspector General to investigate allegations of trafficking and to take remedial actions, including the suspension of payments under the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement. Amends the federal criminal code to impose a fine andor prison term of up to five years on any individual who knowingly and with intent to defraud recruits, solicits, or hires a person outside the United States, or attempts to do so, to work on on a government contract performed on government facilities outside the United States by means of materially false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises regarding such employment.
Improved Security Vetting for Aviation Workers Act of 2015 This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 todirect the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), by December 31, 2015, in coordination with the DHS Assistant Secretary for Policy, to request from the Director of National Intelligence access to additional data from the Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment data and any or other terrorism-related information to improve the effectiveness of TSA's credential vetting program for individuals with unescorted access to sensitive areas of airports. The TSA, by the same deadline, shall: issue guidance for Transportation Security Inspectors to review annually airport badging office procedures for applicants seeking access to sensitive airport areas, including a comprehensive review of applicants' Criminal History Records Check and work authorization documentation during the course of an inspection. Issue guidance to airports requiring that all federalized airport badging authorities place an expiration date on airport credentials commensurate with the period of time during which an individual is lawfully authorized to work in the United States. And review the denial of credentials owing to an applicants's lawful status in order to identify airports with specific weaknesses and coordinate with them to address such weaknesses. The TSA may conduct a Rap Back Service pilot program, in coordination with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), to determine the feasibility of full implementation of a service through which the TSA would be notified of a change in status of an individual holding a valid credential granting unescorted access to sensitive airport areas across eligible TSA-regulated populations. Certain pilot program procedures are prescribed regarding notification only of a change with respect to a disqualifying offense under the credential vetting program. The TSA, within 60 days after enactment of this Act, shall report to Congress on the status of plans to conduct the Rap Back Service pilot program.
Aviation Industry Stabilization Act of 2003 - Amends Federal transportation law to change from discretionary to mandatory the authority of the Secretary of Transportation to provide insurance and reinsurance against loss or damage arising out of any risk from the operation of an American aircraft or foreign-flag aircraft. Grants the Secretary authority to extend through calendar year 2007 the termination date of any insurance policy issued to an air carrier. Makes permanent the Secretary's authority to declare an air carrier a victim of terrorism not liable for third party claims arising out of acts of terrorism. Extends the period for an air carrier to apply for a loan guarantee or line of credit to pay for its aviation fuel costs or increases in aviation fuel costs under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act. Requires the Under Secretary for Border and Transportation Security, after all cockpit doors are strengthened, to consider and report to Congress on whether it is necessary to require Federal air marshals to be seated in the first class cabin of an aircraft with strengthened cockpit doors. Requires the Under Secretary to: (1) undertake action necessary to improve the screening of mail so that it can be carried on passenger flights. And (2) reimburse air carriers for certain screening and related activities as well as the cost of fortifying cockpit doors, and for any financial losses attributed to the loss of air traffic resulting from the use of force against Iraq in calendar year 2003. Requires that an airlift services contract entered into by the Secretary of Defense and an air carrier provide for the air carrier to be compensated for the positioning, repositioning, and other ferry portions of missions performed under the contract. Requires the Secretary of Energy, if the use of force against Iraq is authorized in calendar year 2003, to drawdown and distribute petroleum from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to the extent necessary to remedy a dislocation in the jet fuel market or an extraordinary increase in the price of jet fuel. Establishes an air cargo security working group composed of various groups to develop recommendations on the enhancement of the current known shipper program. Directs the Comptroller General to analyze factors contributing to the financial difficulties of air carriers to determine possible approaches to alleviate such difficulties.
United States-Israel Homeland Security Foundation Act - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a United States-Israel Homeland Security Foundation for awarding conditional grants to joint business ventures between US and Israeli private corporate entities to develop, manufacture, sell, or otherwise provide products and services with applications related to homeland security. Limits grant amounts to 50 percent of proposed costs. Requires grant recipients to repay the Foundation up to 150 percent of the grant awarded. Directs the Foundation to include an advisory board. Provides Foundation funding through the Acceleration Fund for Research and Development of Homeland Security Technologies. Directs the Secretary, if not establishing the Foundation, to use a specified amount from such Fund to support the efforts of the Binational Industrial Research and Development Foundation to make grants to joint US-Israeli business ventures for projects relating to homeland security.
Flood Control Credit Act of 2013 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Army to apply credit for in-kind contributions by a non-federal interest that exceed the required non-federal cost-share for a water resources study or project, including credit for in-kind contributions provided to accelerate completion of such a study or project, toward the required non-federal cost-share for a different water resources study or project. Allows credit in excess of non-federal cost-share for a study or project to be approved only if: (1) the non-federal interest submits a comprehensive plan to the Secretary that identifies the studies and projects for which it intends to provide in-kind contributions for credit that is in excess of the non-federal cost share for the study or project and the studies and projects to which that excess credit would be applied, (2) the Secretary approves such plan, and (3) the total amount of credit does not exceed the total non-federal cost-share for the studies and projects in the approved plan. Directs the Secretary to consider whether applying such credit will: (1) help to expedite the completion of a project or group of projects, (2) reduce federal government costs, and (3) aid the completion of a project that provides significant flood risk reduction or environmental benefits. Amends the Flood Control Act of 1970 to: allow a partnership agreement for the construction of a water resources project to require the Secretary to credit the value of in-kind contributions made by the non-federal interest toward the non-federal share of the cost of a project under an environmental infrastructure assistance program. Require the Secretary and the non-federal interest, in any case in which the non-federal interest is to receive credit for the cost of construction it carried out before execution of a partnership agreement and such construction has not been carried out as of the date of enactment of this Act, to enter into an agreement under which the non-federal interest shall carry out such work prior to initiating construction or issuing a written notice to proceed for the construction. Provide that construction that is carried out after the execution of such an agreement, and any design activities that are required for that construction, shall be eligible for credit. Allow credit for in-kind contributions provided by a non-federal interest that are in excess of the non-federal cost share for an authorized separable element of a project to be applied toward the non-federal cost share for a different authorized separable element of the same project or toward another authorized project, within the same watershed, for which the non-federal interest has a cost share responsibility. And require the Secretary, to the extent that credit for in-kind contributions and credit for required land, easements, rights-of-way, dredged material disposal areas, and relocations provided by the non-federal interest exceed the non-federal share of the cost of construction of a project other than a navigation project, to reimburse the difference to the non-federal interest. Requires credit for in-kind contributions authorized for a water resources project under the Flood Control Act of 1970 or a flood control project under the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 to be available for work performed by a non-federal interest on any separable element of a project following the identification by the Secretary of project alternatives as part of a feasibility study or a general or limited reevaluation report.
Gettysburg Campaign Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue five-dollar gold coins, one-dollar silver coins, and half-dollar clad coins emblematic of the history and memory of the Battle of Gettysburg and the Gettysburg Address of President Abraham Lincoln.
Directs the Secretary to award competitive grants to States for improving staffing levels in nursing facilities. Amends titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to require skilled nursing and nursing facilities to report to the Secretary on nurse staffing levels and information regarding patient classification.
Jamestown 400th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act of 2003 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue not more than 100,000 $5 gold coins and 500,000 $1 silver coins, which shall be emblematic of the settlement of Jamestown, Virginia . Prohibits: (1) any provision of law governing procurement or public contracts from being applicable to the procurement of goods and services necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act. And (2) such general waiver of procurement regulations from relieving any person entering into a contract under the authority of this Act from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity. Provides for a $35 per coin surcharge for the $5 dollar coins and $10 per coin for the $1 dollar coins. Directs the Secretary to distribute: (1) 50 percent of the surcharges to the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation of Virginia to support programs to promote the understanding of the legacies of Jamestown. And (2) 50 percent to sustain the ongoing mission of preserving Jamestown, to enhance national and international educational programs, to improve infrastructure and archeological research activities, and to conduct other programs to support the commemoration of the 400th anniversary of the settlement of Jamestown. States that entities specified for such purposes are the Secretary of the Department of the Interior, the President of the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities, and the Chairman of the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation. Requires the Secretary to take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that minting and issuing coins under this Act will not result in any net cost to the US Government. Prohibits the issuance of a coin unless the Secretary has received: (1) full payment for the coin. (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the United States for full payment. Or (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary from a depository institution, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration.
Designates portions of the highway formerly designated as US Route 66 that remain in existence as America's Main Street. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) establish the Office for the Preservation of America's Main Street. And (2) designate National Park Service officials stationed at locations convenient to the States in which a portion of Route 66 is located and interested persons in such States to perform Office functions. Requires the Office to: (1) support efforts of State and local public and private persons and entities in such States to preserve Route 66 by providing technical assistance, participating in cost-sharing programs, and making grants and loans. (2) act as a clearinghouse for communication among Federal, State, and local agencies and private persons and entities interested in the preservation of Route 66. And (3) assist such States in determining the appropriate form of and establishing and supporting a non-Federal entity or entities to perform the Office's functions after it is terminated. Authorizes the Office to: (1) enter into cooperative agreements, (2) accept donations, (3) provide cost-share grants, (4) provide technical assistance in historic preservation and fundraising. And (5) conduct research. Requires the Office: (1) to sponsor a road sign program on Route 66 to be implemented on a cost-sharing basis with State and local organizations. (2) to provide assistance in the preservation of Route 66 that is compatible with the idiosyncratic nature of the highway. (3) not to prepare an overall management plan for Route 66, but to cooperate with the States and local public and private persons and entities in developing local preservation plans to guide efforts to protect the most important or representative resources of Route 66. (4) to develop a technical assistance program in the preservation of Route 66, including guidelines for setting priorities for preservation needs. And (5) to coordinate a program of historic research, curation, preservation strategies, and collection of oral and video histories of Route 66 designed for continuing use and implementation by other organizations after the Office is terminated. Makes available cost-share grants for the preservation of Route 66 for resources that meet the guidelines under the program. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the Office ten years after the date of enactment of this Act.
Securely Expediting Clearances Through Reporting Transparency Act of 2018 or the SECRET Act of 2018 This bill requires the National Background Investigations Bureau (NBIB) within the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to report on itsnbsp. Backlog of security clearance investigations. The report must include a backlog mitigation plan identifying the cause of, and making recommendations to remedy, the backlog. The Executive Office of the Presidentnbsp. Must report on the process for conducting and adjudicating security clearance investigations fornbsp, the President's staff. nbsp. The OPM must report on the costs of maintaining comprehensive background investigations capability within both the NBIB and the Department of Defense, compared to the costs of sustaining a single government-wide background investigations enterprise. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) must report on: (1) the status of implementing government-wide continuous evaluation programs, (2) efforts by federal agencies to meet requirements for reciprocal recognition to access classified information, and (3) whether the schedule for processing security clearances should be modified. The ODNI and the OPM must review and make recommendations to Congress and the President, as appropriate, to issue guidance to assist agencies in determining: (1)nbsp. Position sensitivity designation, and (2) the appropriate background investigation to initiate for each position designation. The President must report on any issues identified in, and the number of position designations revised as a result of, the review.
American Opportunity Tax Credit Extension Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the Hope Scholarship tax credit, to: (1) make permanent increases in the amount of such tax credit. (2) allow such credit for the first four years of post-secondary education. (3) include course materials in the definition of qualified tuition and related expenses for purposes of such credit. (4) increase adjusted gross income levels for purposes of determining eligibility for such credit and the lifetime learning tax credit. And (5) allow such credit as an offset against the alternative minimum tax (AMT).
Southern New Mexico and El Paso, Texas, Veterans Traumatic Brain Injury Care Improvement Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to report to Congress on the feasibility and advisability of establishing a Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center or Polytrauma Network Site of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) in the southern New Mexico and El Paso, Texas, region that is within a reasonable driving distance of Fort Bliss, White Sands Missile Range, and Holloman Air Force Base. Requires the Fort Bayard Medical Center in Grant County, New Mexico, to be evaluated as a potential location for such a Center or Site.
Upper Mississippi River Basin Protection Act - Requires federal investments in the Upper Mississippi River Basin to be guided by accepted and documented scientific methods and to take into account the results of studies using such methods to identify and quantify the sources, transport, and fate of nutrients and sediment and to quantify the effect of treatment methods or conservation measures on nutrient and sediment management. Directs the Secretary of the Interior, as part of an Upper Mississippi River Stewardship Initiative and acting through the US Geological Survey (USGS), to establish a nutrient and sediment monitoring network for the Basin. Directs the Secretary to: (1) establish guidelines for related data collection and storage activities. (2) inventory the sediment and monitoring efforts of governmental, tribal, and nongovernmental entities for the purpose of creating a baseline understanding of overlap, data gaps, and redundancies. (3) integrate such monitoring efforts into the sediment and nutrient monitoring network. And (4) collaborate with other public, tribal, and private monitoring and assessment programs in establishing the monitoring network. Directs the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a water resources assessment of the Basin. Requires the Director of the USGS: (1) as part of the Initiative, to develop and implement a plan to improve existing water-quality models to identify and quantify significant sources of sediment and nutrients in the Basin at the subwatershed scale. (2) to establish a communication plan that includes use of the Internet to provide information on accomplishments of public and private programs designed to manage sediment and nutrients in the Basin and on seasonal and annual concentrations and loads of sediment and nutrients in the Upper Mississippi River and its tributaries. And (3) provide an annual report that includes information on concentrations and loads of nutrients and sediment derived from monitoring activities conducted in the Basin.
Improving Security for Investors and Providing Closure Act of 2013 or Improving SIPC Act of 2013 - Amends the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 with respect to any action in a US district court by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) against the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) in the event that SIPC refuses to commit funds or otherwise act for the protection of customers of any SIPC member . Authorizes SIPC, at the time the SEC action initiates such action, to allow all customers of the debtor broker or dealer to elect to receive a one-time payment from the SIPC Fund. Prescribes procedures for such customer election. Limits the amount paid to a customer under such election to the lesser of: (1) the customer's net equity claim against the debtor, and (2) a $500,000 cap on one-time payments. Subrogates SIPC to all rights of the customer receiving a one-time payment against the debtor once the customer recovers an amount equal to the customer's net equity claim against the debtor. Treats a certificate of deposit (CD) purchased by a person through an account with the debtor as cash deposited and held by the debtor in an amount equal to the amount the person paid for the CD, less any amounts paid to such person on the CD. Permits a person prevented from making an election under this Act because SIPC does not identify such person as a customer of the debtor to challenge that determination in federal district court.
Comprehensive Problem Gambling Act of 2011 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to: (1) establish and implement programs for the prevention, treatment, and research of pathological and other problem gambling. (2) carry out a national campaign to increase knowledge and raise awareness of problem gambling. And (3) establish and implement a national program of research on problem gambling. Authorizes the Administrator, in carrying out the national campaign, to: (1) administer and coordinate the voluntary donation of resources to assist in implementing new programs and augmenting and supporting existing national campaigns, and (2) encourage media outlets to provide information aimed at preventing problem gambling. Requires the Administrator to target radio and television audiences of events including sporting and gambling events. Directs: (1) the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a treatment improvement protocol for problem gambling. And (2) the Administrator to integrate problem gambling into existing alcohol, tobacco, and other drug prevention programs where practical.
Small Business Export Support Act of 2010 - Amends the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to require the Secretary of Commerce to assign export licensing compliance specialists to at least 20 United States and Foreign Commercial Service district offices to provide small and medium-sized businesses with support, training, education, and compliance assistance regarding export licensing, including arms export licensing, requirements. Directs the Secretary to review and report to the President annually on the level of staffing at each such district office in order to determine the level that will enable it to serve such businesses effectively. Requires each of the Secretaries of Commerce, of Defense (DOD), of State, and of the Treasury, as well as the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA), to designate an export licensing coordinator who exercises significant decisionmaking authority in the respective department or agency. Requires the coordinator to devise, encourage, and coordinate department or agency activities providing small and medium-sized businesses with export licensing assistance under this Act. Establishes in the Department of Commerce an Interagency Task Force on Export Control Assistance and Relief for Small and Medium-Sized Businesses to report annually to Congress its recommendations for improving such assistance.
Office of Surgeon General Sunset Act - Terminates the Office and position of the Surgeon General of the Public Health Service, transferring the Office's functions to the Assistant Secretary for Health of the Department of Health and Human Services. Requires that the Office of Management and Budget make determinations of the functions transferred. Provides for related delegation, reorganization, rules and regulations, transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel, other transfers, the effect on personnel, and the effect on legal documents, proceedings, and administrative actions.
International Carbon Conservation Act - Establishes within the Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards and Technology an implementing panel, to be headed by the Chief of the Forest Service, which shall: (1) establish a carbon sequestration program. And (2) accept qualifying projects located outside of the United States. Permits an owner or operator of property located outside the United States that is used in a qualifying project to be eligible for: (1) credit extension from the Export-Import Bank of the United States of up to 75 percent of the cost of carrying out the carbon sequestration practices specified in the contract. And (2) investment insurance issued by the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
No Subsidies Without Verification Act of 2014 - Disallows the health plan premium assistance tax credit or cost-sharing reduction under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act before the first date of the first coverage month beginning on or after the date on which the process to verify an individual's household income and coverage requirements of such individual for purposes of determining eligibility for, and the accurate amount of, the credit or reduction, respectively, has been completed. Requires for such verification: (1) completion of a manual or electronic review of the information required of an applicant for enrollment in a plan, and (2) resolution of any inconsistency of such information with records of the Departments of the Treasury or Homeland Security (DHS) or the Social Security Administration. Exempts individuals from the penalty for not maintaining minimum essential coverage for any month with respect to which a premium tax credit is being claimed and that begins before the date on which the verification process has been completed. Suspends, until the coverage month beginning after eligibility verification has been completed, the premium tax credit and reduced cost-sharing in the case of individuals for whom the subsidy was allowed before enactment of this Act. Provides a special enrollment period for an individual who terminated enrollment in a qualified plan during the period of suspension.
Independent Outside Audit of the Indian Health Service Act of 2017 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to contract with private entities to assess the health care delivery systems and financial management of the Indian Health Service (IHS). The assessment must address IHS issues including: the demographics and health care needs of the patient population, health care capabilities and resources, staffing levels at medical facilities and the productivity of each health care provider, information technology strategies related to providing health care, business processes, the competency of leadership regarding specified issues, tracking patients eligible for other federal health care programs, and the number of procurement contracts and awards under the Buy Indian Act.
Adoption Equality Act of 1998 - Amends title IV part E of the Social Security Act (SSA) to revise adoption assistance eligibility guidelines for children with special needs. Makes eligible for such assistance only children with special needs who before termination of parental rights and the initiation of adoption proceedings were: (1) in the care of a public or licensed private child care agency or Indian tribal organization, either pursuant to a voluntary placement agreement , or as a result of a judicial determination to the effect that continuation in the home would be contrary to the child's safety and welfare. Or (2) residing in a foster family home or child care institution with the child's minor parent. Requires a State to consider such special needs, together with the circumstances of the adopting parents, in determining the amount of Federal adoption subsidies paid to them. Prohibits assistance with respect to any child who is not a US citizen or resident and who was adopted outside the United States or was brought into it for adoption purposes. Prescribes guidelines under which the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall reduce, for specified fiscal years, Federal payments to the States for administrative costs based on determinations of amounts attributable to the Medicaid program under the Food Stamp Act of 1977. Requires the Secretary to make a bonus payment to any State: (1) whose income and eligibility rules are not more restrictive than the income and resource eligibility rules applied by the State for the temporary assistance to needy families (TANF) program funded under SSA title IV part A. And (2) which assures the Secretary that families applying for TANF may apply for Medicaid under SSA title XIX.
Amends the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to direct the US Governor of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to accept, on behalf of the United States, the fourth amendment to the Articles of Agreement of the IMF approved in resolution numbered 52- 4 of the IMF's Board of Governors. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) instruct the US Executive Director at the IMF to seek an agreement to include the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , in its capacity as administrator of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, as a prescribed holder of Special Drawing Rights. (2) upon achieving an agreement, provide for the contribution of one-third of the Special Drawing Rights received by the United States to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. And (3) seek to enter into negotiations to induce IMF member countries to contribute their allocated Special Drawing Rights to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
Olympic Commemorative Coins Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) issue commemorative one-dollar coins in each six-month period prior to the date upon which the Summer or Winter Olympic Games are held in a nation other than the United States. And (2) develop an expanded multi-coin commemorative coins program in each year prior to a year in which such Games are held in the United States. Expresses the sense of the Congress that each coin edition should be self-sustaining and administered so as not to result in any net cost to the Numismatic Public Enterprise Fund.
Phone Scam Prevention Act of 2014 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require voice communications service providers to offer subscribers the option to designate a list of approved telephone numbers for which calls originating from those numbers are permitted to connect directly with the subscriber's telephone and other customer premises equipment. Requires providers to ensure that any call for termination that is not from a number on the subscriber's list is processed according to the subscriber's preferences, including by limiting or disabling the ability of an incoming call to connect with the subscriber's equipment. Exempts government and public interest calls from being subject to a subscriber's preferences. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to develop authentication standards for providers to validate caller information so that subscribers may obtain secure assurances of a call's origin, including the calling party's number and identification. Extends the prohibition on the provision of inaccurate caller identification information to persons outside the United States if the recipient is within the United States. Expands the definition quot, caller identification informationquot. To include text messages. Revises caller identification requirements to make standards applicable to voice communications using resources from the North American Numbering Plan .
Community Restoration and Revitalization Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow an increased rehabilitation tax credit for certain low-income buildings. (2) allow a basis reduction adjustment for property eligible for the credit, (3) increase the credit for certain smaller buildings. (4) allow property eligible for the credit to be used for lodging purposes, (5) modify placed-in-service rules for credit property. (6) modify qualification rules for credit property that is tax-exempt use property. And (7) increase the credit for buildings in high cost areas.
Clear Creek National Recreation Area and Conservation Act This bill establishes the Clear Creek National Recreation Area in California to promote environmentally responsible off-highway vehicle recreation and support other public recreational uses, including hunting, hiking, and rock and gem collecting. The Department of the Interior shall: prioritize environmentally responsible off-highway vehicle recreation and also facilitate hunting, hiking, gem collecting, and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain bikes, and horses, issue special recreation permits for motorized and nonmotorized events. And reopen the Clear Creek Management Area to such uses. Interior shall use the 2006 Clear Creek Management Area Travel Management Plan, as modified by this bill or by Interior, to incorporate natural resource protection information unavailable in 2006 as the basis for an interim management plan to govern off-highway vehicle recreation in the Recreation Area. Interior shall create a comprehensive management plan for the Recreation Area, which shall include: a hazards education program to inform people entering the Recreation Area of the asbestos-related risks associated with various activities within the recreation area, including off-highway vehicle recreation. And a user fee program for motorized vehicle use and guidelines for the use of the funds collected for the management and improvement of the recreation area. Interior may acquire by purchase from willing sellers, donation, or exchange: lands adjacent to the Recreation Area, and lands or interests in land to improve public safety in allowing access to the Recreation Area. Landowners must be given adequate access to inholdings within the Recreation Area. Private land adjacent to the Recreation Area to which there is no practicable access except through the recreation area shall be managed as an inholding. Nothing in this bill: creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Recreation Area, constitutes a reservation by the United States of any water or water rights, limits hunting or fishing, or affects state authority to manage or regulated fish and resident wildlife. The use of motorized vehicles on public land in the Recreation Area shall be permitted only on roads, trails, and areas designated by the management plan. Livestock grazing shall be allowed to continue in certain parts of the Recreation Area. The bill withdraws all federal land within the Recreation Area from: (1) all forms of entry, appropriations, and disposal under the public land laws, (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws. And (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws. The National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan shall not apply to Interior's management of asbestos exposure risks faced by the public when recreating within the Recreation Area. The bill designates approximately 21,000 acres of identified federal lands in Fresno and San Benito Counties, California, as the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness, and a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System. The bill also releases the San Benito Mountain Wilderness Study Area from specified requirements applicable to public lands subject to a wilderness review. No additional funds are authorized to carry out this bill's requirements, and those requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized.
Economic Modernization Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow additional tax credits and deductions to assist employees who work in declining or short-supply fields. A quot, declining fieldquot. Has experienced a decline in the level of average employment of at least 8 over the most recent 3-year period. A quot, short-supplyquot. Field: (1) requires theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge and certain degrees or experience in the specialty. And (2) has an insufficient number of US citizens or residents who are qualified, willing, and able to satisfy the demand for labor in the occupation or field of work. For employers, the bill allows an economic transition tax credit for payroll taxes paid over a three-year period with respect to employees who previously worked in a declining field. For individuals employed in short-supply fields, the bill: increases the limit for the exclusion from gross income for employer-provided educational assistance programs and expands the exclusion to include payments of education loans, increases the limit for the deduction for interest on education loans, and increases the limit for the deduction for qualified tuition and related expenses. The bill also allows a deduction for companies that rehabilitate certain abandoned buildings. The deduction is equal to a portion of the income attributable to the rehabilitated building and may not exceed 50 of the wages paid by the company.
Electric Reliability Improvement Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal Power Act to grant the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) jurisdiction over a FERC-certified Electric Reliability Organization (ERO), established under this Act to enforce, subject to FERC review, reliability standards for the bulk-power system. Includes within such jurisdiction regional entities and all users, owners, and operators of the bulk-power system for purposes of approving reliability standards and enforcing compliance with this Act. Urges the President to negotiate international agreements with the governments of Canada and Mexico to provide effective compliance with reliability standards and the effectiveness of the ERO in the United States, Canada, or Mexico. Restricts to the bulk-power system only the ERO authority to develop and enforce compliance with reliability standards. Declares that this Act does not authorize the ERO or FERC to order construction of additional generation or transmission capacity, or to set and enforce compliance with standards for adequacy or safety of electric facilities or services. Directs FERC to establish a regional advisory body on the petition of at least two-thirds of the States within a region that have more than one-half of their electric load served within the region. Authorizes such body to advise the ERO, a regional entity, or FERC. Declares this Act inapplicable to Alaska or Hawaii.
Tax Relief and Fulfilling Our Obligation to Patriotic Soldiers Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income payments made to members of the Armed Forces as enlistment and reenlistment bonuses. Requires the Secretary of Defense to continue the payment to members of the Armed Forces who are retired or separated for disability due to a combat-related injury of certain bonuses to which such members were entitled immediately before retirement or separation and to which such members would continue to be entitled if they were not retired or separated.
Justice for Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism Act - Amends the federal judicial code to expand the rights of victims of state-sponsored terrorism by: (1) denying foreign states that support terrorism immunity from the jurisdiction of US courts for cases involving personal injury or death related to the terrorist activities of its officials, employees, or agents. (2) allowing certain nationals of the United States, members of the Armed Forces, and federal employees or contractors a private cause of action against a foreign state designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. (3) making foreign states vicariously liable for the actions of their officials, employees, or agents. (4) limiting appeals in cases against foreign states involving terrorist-related injuries. And (5) establishing a pending lien against property of a foreign state sponsor of terrorism upon the initiation of legal action in the United States against such state.
Wild Sky Wilderness and Backcountry Wilderness Management Area Act of 2004 - Designates specified Federal lands in the State of Washington as: (1) the Wild Sky Wilderness. And (2) the Skykomish Backcountry Wilderness Management Area . Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to manage the Wilderness in accordance with the Wilderness Act and this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to use helicopter access to construct and maintain a joint US Forest Service and Snohomish County repeater site, in compliance with a Forest Service-approved communications site plan, to improve communication for safety, health, and emergency services. Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop a management plan for the Area. (2) establish a trail plain for specified National Forest System lands to develop a system of hiking and equestrian trails in the Wilderness and the Area, and trails adjacent to the Wilderness or the Area. And (3) carry out a land exchange with the Chelan County Public Utility District in the State, subject to specified requirements.
United States Fire Administration Authorization Act of 2003 - Re-establishes the position of United States Fire Administrator. Amends the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to require the Administrator to develop and implement a national residential fire sprinkler strategy that meets specified requirements. Allows the use of fire prevention program grant assistance for training of firefighting personnel in maritime firefighting. Transfers the duties of the Director of the United States Fire Administration to the Administrator with respect to the firefighter assistance grants program. Requires the Administrator to: (1) establish specific criteria for the selection of assistance recipients. And (2) provide grant-writing assistance to applicants. Authorizes FY 2004 through 2006 appropriations for the Administrator to carry out this Act other than the firefighter assistance grants program. Requires the Superintendent of the National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control to offer, at the Academy and other sites, courses and training assistance as necessary to accommodate all geographic regions and needs of career and volunteer firefighters. Directs the Administrator to: (1) develop new, and utilize existing, measurement techniques and testing methodologies for evaluating firefighting technologies. (2) evaluate the compatibility of new and existing equipment and technology. And (3) support the development of new standards through national voluntary consensus standards organizations for new firefighting technologies. Requires the Administrator, by regulation, to require that new equipment or systems purchased through the assistance program established by the Act meet or exceed established applicable voluntary consensus standards. Allows the Administrator to waive this requirement. Requires a grant applicant, who proposes to purchase with assistance provided under the grant new equipment or systems that do not meet or exceed applicable voluntary consensus standards, to include in the application an explanation of why such equipment or systems will serve the needs of the applicant better than equipment or systems that do meet or exceed such standards. Allows a grant applicant to include a second grant request in the application to be considered by the Administrator in the event the primary grant request is not approved on the grounds of the equipment not meeting such standards. Authorizes FY 2004 through 2006 appropriations for the Administrator to develop new firefighting technology. Directs the Administrator to: (1) provide technical assistance and training to State and local fire service officials to establish nationwide and State mutual aid systems for dealing with national emergencies. And (2) develop and make model mutual aid plans for both intrastate and interstate assistance available to State and local fire service officials. Requires the Administrator to report to specified congressional committees on the need for a strategy concerning deployment of volunteers and emergency response personnel, including a national credentialing system, in the event of a national emergency. Requires the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to: (1) revise the FEMA Federal Response Plan to incorporate plans for responding to terrorist attacks, particularly in urban areas, including fire detection and suppression and related emergency services. And (2) report to specified congressional committees on the action taken to comply with such revisions. Authorizes the Superintendent of the National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control to train fire service personnel in: (1) strategies for building collapse rescue, (2) the use of technology in response to fires. (3) response, tactics, and strategies for dealing with terrorist-caused national catastrophes. (4) use of and familiarity with the FEMA's Federal Response Plan. (5) leadership and strategic skills, including integrated management systems operations and integrated response. (6) applying new technology and developing strategies and tactics for fighting forest fires. (7) integrating terrorism response agencies into the national terrorism incident response system. And (8) response tactics and strategies for fighting fires at US ports, including fires on the water and aboard vessels. Authorizes the Superintendent to consult with other Federal, State, and local agency officials in developing curricula for classes offered by the Academy. Requires the Administrator, where appropriate, to coordinate training provided under the Act with the heads of other Federal agencies to: (1) ensure that such training does not duplicate existing courses available to fire service personnel, and (2) establish a mechanism for eliminating duplicative programs.
Long-Term Care Advancement Act of 1998 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) except from the penalty tax and exclude from income amounts withdrawn from qualified retirement plans which are used to pay for premiums for qualified long-term care insurance contracts. And (2) provide a limited credit for an individual who maintains a household with a person requiring custodial care.
Taxation of Minor Children Simplification Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise rules for the taxation of the income of minor children . Repeals the allocable parental tax rules. Allows parents to elect to claim the child's gross income and deductions on the parents' tax return.
Safe Schools Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of Education to make competitive grants to eligible local educational agencies for projects to achieve National Education Goal Six by helping to ensure that all schools are safe and free of violence. Directs the Secretary to develop a written safe schools model. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary to use certain reserved funds to conduct national leadership activities such as research, program development and evaluation, data collection, public awareness activities, training and technical assistance, peer review of applications, and grants for public television video projects for conflict resolution.
Green Energy Investment Zone Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow various energy-related tax credits for investment in energy property in high job-loss zones. Amends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Tax Act of 2009 to allow increased grant amounts for investment in energy property in high job-loss zones.
FISA Court Reform Act of 2013 - Establishes as an independent establishment in the executive branch an Office of the Special Advocate to protect individual rights by advocating in cases before courts established by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA) in support of legal interpretations that minimize the scope of surveillance and the extent of data collection and retention. Directs the presiding judge of the FISA Court of Review to appoint a Special Advocate to serve as the head of such Office from a list of candidates submitted by the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Requires the Special Advocate to: (1) review each application to the FISA Court by the Attorney General and each decision of the FISA Court or the FISA Court of Review, and (2) participate in proceedings before the FISA Court when appointed to participate by such Court. Permits the Special Advocate to request to participate in such proceedings, request reconsideration of FISA Court decisions, and appeal or seek review of FISA Court or FISA Court of Review decisions. Directs such Courts to promulgate rules to provide the public with information sufficient to allow interested parties to participate as amicus curiae. Authorizes the Special Advocate to seek a writ of certiorari from the Supreme Court for review of any decision of the FISA Court of Review. Requires the Attorney General to publicly disclose: (1) all decisions issued by the FISA Court or the FISA Court of Review after July 10, 2003, that include a significant construction or interpretation of law, (2) any decision of the FISA Court appealed by the Special Advocate, and (3) any FISA Court of Review decision issued after an appeal by the Special Advocate. Provides for the release of as much information regarding the facts and analysis in such decisions as is consistent with legitimate national security concerns. Permits the Special Advocate to petition the FISA Court or FISA Court of Review for the public disclosure of decisions and related documents previously designated as classified or for the release of an unclassified summary of such materials.
Renewable Energy Investment Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) extend through 2014 the tax credit for producing electricity from renewable resources. (2) increase and extend through 2014 the authority for issuing new clean renewable energy bonds. (3) extend through 2018 the energy tax credit for investment in solar energy and fuel cell property, small wind energy property, and geothermal heat pump systems. (4) increase the energy tax credit for investment in advanced energy facilities. And (5) extend through 2011 the income and excise tax credits for alcohol fuels, biodiesel, and renewable diesel. Authorizes appropriations for advanced biofuels research, development, and demonstration that will create fuels that are fungible in existing infrastructure.
Mandate Prevention Act of 2010 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (CBA) to make it out of order to consider in either chamber of Congress any legislation that would increase the direct costs of federal private sector mandates by an amount that causes the applicable thresholds to be exceeded, unless the legislation: (1) provides new budget or entitlement authority in the House of Representatives or direct spending authority in the Senate for each fiscal year for such mandates in an amount equal to or exceeding the direct costs of each such mandate. Or (2) includes an authorization of appropriations in an amount equal to or exceeding the direct costs of such mandates and makes other specified arrangements for up to 10 years during which each mandate shall be in effect under the legislation. Applies such prohibition to any legislative provision increasing direct costs of a federal private sector mandate in any legislation reported by a congressional appropriations committee. Amends Rule XVIII of the Rules of the House to state that the Committee of the Whole may be precluded from considering an amendment proposing only to strike an unfunded federal private sector mandate from the portion of the bill then open to amendment only by specific terms of a special order of the House. Amends the CBA to equalize the threshold between private sector and intergovernmental mandates.
Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area Act of 2003 - Establishes the Crossroads of the American Revolution National Heritage Area in New Jersey. Designates the Crossroads of the American Revolution Association, Inc. as the Area's management entity. Directs the Association to submit, and to assist local governments, regional planning organizations, and nonprofit entities in implementing, an area management plan which includes strategies for conservation, funding, management, and development of the Area. Bars the Association from using Federal funds received under this Act to acquire real property, but permits the Association to use any other source of funding, including other Federal funding, intended for the acquisition of real property. Limits Federal funding to 50 percent of any assistance provided. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to provide assistance to: (1) the Area to develop and implement the management plan. And (2) State or local government or nonprofit organizations for treatment of historical objects or structures eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. Authorizes the Superintendent of Morristown National Historical Park to provide operational assistance supporting implementation of the management plan to public and private organizations within the Area, including the Association.
Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to direct the Attorney General to take specified steps to ensure that the numerical limitation computation of H-1B visa nonimmigrant aliens accurately reflects the number of such aliens employed under such status in each fiscal year.
Preserving Crime Victims' Restitution Act of 2006 - Amends the federal criminal code to establish guidelines for cases in which a defendant in a criminal prosecution dies prior to the final adjudication of guilt. Sets forth rules for restitution to victims, appeals, motions, petitions, and civil forfeiture in such cases. Provides, as a general rule, that the death of a defendant who has been convicted of a federal criminal offense shall not be the basis for abating or otherwise invalidating a plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted, a verdict returned, a sentence announced, or a judgment entered prior to the death of such defendant, or for dismissing or otherwise invalidating the indictment, information, or complaint, except as provided by this Act.
Business Supply Chain Transparency on Trafficking and Slavery Act of 2014 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) legislation is necessary to provide consumers information on products that are free of child labor, forced labor, slavery, and human trafficking. And (2) businesses and consumers, by means of publicly available disclosures, can avoid inadvertently promoting or sanctioning these crimes through production and purchase of goods and products that have been tainted in the supply chains. Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), within one year after enactment of the Global Supply Chain Transparency for Trafficking, Forced Labor, and Child Labor Eradication Act, to promulgate regulations requiring that mandatory annual reports include a disclosure whether the covered issuer has taken any measures during the year to identify and address conditions of forced labor, slavery, human trafficking, and the worst forms of child labor within the issuer's supply chains. Requires any business entity filing such disclosures to make them available on its Internet website. Directs the Secretary of Labor to develop and publish annually on the Internet website of the Department of Labor a list of top 100 companies adhering to supply chain labor standards, as established under federal and international guidelines.
Food and Medicine for the World Act of 1999 - Prohibits, with specified exceptions, the President from imposing a new unilateral agricultural sanction, or a new unilateral sanction with respect to medicine, medical supplies, or medical equipment, against a foreign country, unless: (1) not less than 60 days before the sanction is proposed to be imposed, the President makes a specified report to Congress, and (2) Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the report.
Cesar Chavez National Historical Park Act This bill establishes as a unit of the National Park System the Cesar Chavez National Historical Park in California and Arizona, replacing the Cesar E. Chavez National Monument and incorporating the Monument lands and interests within, and as part of, the Historical Park. The Department of the Interior may provide staff and technical assistance for the interpretation of historic sites, museums, and resources on lands not administered by Interior related to the life of Cesar Chavez and the history of the farm worker movement. Interior may designate a vehicular tour route, to be known as the American Farm Worker Movement Interpretive Route, to link properties in California and Arizona that are historically and thematically associated with Cesar Chavez and the farm worker movement.
E-911 Implementation Act of 2003 - Amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to direct the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information and the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to: (1) establish a joint program to facilitate coordination between Federal, State, and local emergency communications systems, emergency personnel, public safety organizations, telecommunications carriers, and telecommunications equipment manufacturers and vendors involved in the implementation of E-911 services. (2) create an E-911 Implementation Coordination Office to implement such program. And (3) develop a management plan for such program. Requires annual reports from the Assistant Secretary and the Administrator to Congress on Office activities. Directs the Assistant Secretary and the Administrator to provide grants to eligible entities for the implementation of phase II E-911 services through planning, infrastructure improvements, telecommunications equipment purchases, and personnel training. Limits the Federal share of project costs to 50 percent. Outlines entity participation requirements. Requires each grant applicant to: (1) certify to the Assistant Secretary and the Administrator, at the time of application and annually thereafter if receiving such a grant, that no portion of designated E-911 charges imposed by a State or other taxing jurisdiction is being obligated or expended for any other purpose. And (2) agree that if such charges are used for any other purpose, all of the grant funds shall be returned. Authorizes appropriations to the Department of Transportation for such grants. Terminates the grant program on October 1, 2008. Requires a report from the Federal Communications Commission to specified congressional committees on the deployment of E-911 Phase II services by Tier III service providers.
Collaborating for Economic Reintegration of Troops Act or the CERT Act This bill establishes the Commission on Veteran Certification Standards which shall: examine the challenges confronting members of the Armed Forces and their spouses upon post-service entry into the civilian workforce. Determine best state practices and evaluate efforts to assist members of the Armed Forces in obtaining professional credentials to facilitate the transfer of military skills and certifications to civilian settings. Identify industries and jobs that can most benefit from military experience. Develop recommended Blue Star credentialing standards and design evaluation criteria that the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs can use to evaluate state and territory utilization of such standards, and develop related administrative recommendations.
Trucking Industry Regulatory Reform Act of 1994 - Amends the Interstate Commerce Act to include as objectives of US transportation policy in regulating transportation by motor carrier, the promotion of competitive and efficient transportation services in order to: (1) encourage fair competition and reasonable rates for transportation by motor carriers of property. (2) promote Federal regulatory efficiency in the motor carrier transportation system. And (3) require fair and expeditious regulatory decisions when regulation is required. Requires the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) to exempt motor carriers of non-household goods from its jurisdiction in specified circumstances, including when such transportation is part of a continuous intermodal movement. Exempts a motor contract carrier of non-household goods from requirements that contract carriers establish, and file with the ICC, actual and minimum rates and related rules and practices. Exempts motor common carriers of non-household goods from requirements that carriers: (1) provide transportation or service only if the rate is contained in a tariff. And (2) publish and file with the ICC tariffs containing such rates. Requires the ICC to issue a certificate authorizing a person to provide transportation as a motor common carrier of property if it finds such person able to comply with such Act, ICC regulations, and specified safety, safety fitness, and minimum financial responsibility requirements. Specifies requirements which, if met, compel the ICC to issue a permit authorizing a person to provide transportation as a motor contract carrier of household goods, passengers, or non-household goods. Authorizes the ICC to suspend a certificate or permit of a motor carrier of passengers, motor common carrier of household goods, a motor contract carrier of property, or a motor contract carrier of non-household goods if specified requirements are not met. Directs the Secretary to study and report to the Congress on the feasibility of a merger of the operations and responsibilities of the Federal Maritime Commission and the ICC with respect to cost savings that may be achieved, the efficient allocation of resources, elimination of unnecessary functions, and responsibility for regulatory functions. Directs the ICC to report to the Congress an analysis of all ICC regulatory responsibilities, with recommendations about specific statutory functions of the ICC that could be changed to enhance competition, safety, and efficiency in the motor carrier industry and efficiency in government.
Jumpstarting Our Business Sector Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) eliminate the corporate income tax and the tax on the capital gains of individuals and corporations. And (2) extend for one year the additional depreciation allowance for business and investment assets , the 100 expensing allowance for such assets, and the election to accelerate the alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit in lieu of bonus depreciation.
Global Climate Change Security Oversight Act - Requires the Director of National Intelligence to submit to Congress a National Intelligence Estimate on the anticipated geopolitical effects of global climate change and the implications of such effects on US national security. Requires the Director to prepare the estimate using the mid-range projections of the fourth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to make assessments and recommendation concerning the risks posed by global warming and the security implications, opportunities, and consequences of global warming. Requires the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress on the projected impact on the military installations, capabilities, and operations of the effects of global climate change as assessed in the estimate and to recommend research and analysis needed to further assess the impacts on the military of global climate change as assessed in the estimate. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary should address the findings of the estimate regarding the impact of global climate change and potential implications of such impact on the Armed Forces and for the size, composition, and capabilities of Armed Forces in the next Quadrennial Defense Review. Requires the Secretary of State to report to Congress on the potential for: (1) large migration flows in countries of strategic interest or humanitarian concern as a response to changes in climate and the implications for US security interests. And (2) diplomatic opportunities and challenges facing US policy makers as a result of social, economic, or political responses of groups or nations to global changing climate. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to research the impacts of global climate change on military operations, doctrine, organization, training, material, logistics, personnel, and facilities, and the actions needed to address those impacts.
Student Loan Abuse Prevention Act of 2005 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 as amended by the Taxpayer-Teacher Protection Act of 2004 (HEA) to reduce special allowance payments to holders of student loans by making permanent the ending of a 9.5 minimum guaranteed rate of return to such holders. Directs the Secretary of Education to give incentives, in the form of certain reductions in principal or interest rate, to borrowers to consolidate any current loans for which the holder is entitled to a special allowance that ensures such a 9.5 rate of return, provided such an incentive does not increase the cost of such loan to the federal government. Increases to $23,000 the maximum amount of student loan forgiveness under the Federal Family Education Loan and the Federal Direct Student Loan programs for certain eligible teachers of: (1) mathematics or science in secondary schools. And (2) special education in elementary and secondary schools. Directs the Secretary to use funds available from reduced expenditures resulting from this Act's reduction of special allowances to loan holders, as follows: (1) first, for the student loan cancellation and forgiveness programs for teachers under HEA as amended by this Act. And (2) then, the remainder for payments to nonprofit lenders meeting certain criteria and using such payments to confer grant or scholarship benefits on students eligible for Federal Pell Grants.
Railroad Infrastructure Financing Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends Federal railroad law to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to provide not more than $5 billion in direct loans and loan guarantees to State and local governments, government sponsored authorities and corporations, and railroad carriers to: (1) acquire, improve, or rehabilitate existing rail equipment or facilities, or establish new railroad facilities. Or (2) refinance outstanding debt incurred in carrying out such activities. Sets forth specified conditions and eligibility requirements for such loans.
Serving Everyone with Reliable, Vital Internet, Communications, and Education Act of 2007 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to expand the Lifeline Assistance Program and the Link Up Program. Requires a report to Congress on the benefit level for the programs that will encourage low-income consumers to seek broadband service, projections on potential broadband consumers if the service was economically feasible, industry requirements to provide broadband service in underserved areas, and policy proposals regarding gaps in broadband availability.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Grants to Community-Based Organizations Title II: National Advisory Committee on Community-Based Organizations Community Job Training and Investment Act of 1993 - Title I: Grants to Community-Based Organizations - Subtitle A: Capacity Building Grants - Directs the Secretary of Labor to make grants to community-based organizations to improve their capacity to provide employment and job training services. Requires grant applications, plans, and use agreements. Gives priority to organizations that represent national networks of affiliates and have a history of providing technical assistance and training to affiliates and other local service providers. Subtitle B: Disadvantaged Youth and Adult Grants - Directs the Secretary to make grants to community-based organizations to provide attitudinal, motivational, and skills training to youths and adults who are economically disadvantaged or have a substantial barrier to employment. Requires grant applications, use agreement, coordination with other Federal programs of employment and job training services, and administrative cost limitation. Title II: National Advisory Committee on Community-Based Organizations - Directs the Secretary to establish a National Advisory Committee on Community-Based Organizations to study such organizations' role in providing employment and job training services, especially under the Job Training Partnership Act, and evaluate such services provided from grants under this Act.
Taxpayer Responsibility, Accountability and Consistency Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) require reporting to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of payments of $600 or more made to corporations. (2) set forth criteria and rules relating to the treatment of workers as employees or independent contractors. And (3) increase penalties for failure to file correct tax return information or comply with other information reporting requirements. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to issue an annual report on worker misclassification.
Promoting American Agricultural and Medical Exports to Cuba Act of 2009 - Prohibits the President from restricting direct transfers from a Cuban depository institution to a US depository institution in payment for a product or agricultural commodity authorized for sale under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of 2000. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to provide information and technical assistance to US agricultural producers, cooperative organizations, or state agencies to promote US agricultural exports products to Cuba. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase the airport ticket tax for transportation between the United States and Cuba by $1. And (2) establish in the Treasury the Agricultural Export Promotion Trust Fund. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should issue temporary entry visas to Cuban nationals whose itinerary documents an intent to conduct activities, including phytosanitary inspections, relating to the purchase of US agricultural commodities or products. Amends the Democracy Act of 1992 to repeal the requirement for onsite verification of certain medical exports to Cuba. Prohibits the President from regulating or prohibiting travel to or from Cuba by US citizens or legal residents, or any of the transactions incident to such travel. States that: (1) any regulation restricting or prohibiting such travel shall have no effect. And (2) such prohibition shall not apply in time of war or armed hostilities between the United States and Cuba, or of imminent danger to the public health or the physical safety of US citizens or legal residents. Amends the Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 to repeal the prohibition on enforcement of rights to certain US intellectual properties and such properties' transfer.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for 50 percent of the cost of a qualified hydrogen-powered vehicle refueling property and its installation. Excludes from gross income amounts attributable to the sale of hydrogen fuel sold at retail for use in a hydrogen fuel cell vehicle.
Lymphedema Diagnosis and Treatment Cost Savings Act of 2011 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to extend coverage to lymphedema diagnosis and treatment services. including lymphedema compression treatment items.
Esther Martinez Native American Languages Preservation Act of 2006 - Amends the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as part of the Native American languages grant program, to make three-year grants for educational Native American language nests, survival schools, and restoration programs. Requires that Native American language nests: (1) provide instruction and child care through the use of a Native American language for at least 10 children under the age of seven for an average of at least 500 hours per year per student. (2) provide classes in such language for the parents of such students. And (3) use such language as the dominant medium of instruction in the nest. Requires that Native American language survival schools: (1) provide an average of at least 500 hours of instruction per year per student through the use of at least one Native American language for at least 15 students for whom the school is their principal school. (2) develop instructional courses and materials that service the goal of making all students fluent in such a language and proficient in mathematics, reading, and science, (3) provide teacher training. And (4) be located in areas having high concentrations of Native American students. Requires applicants for language survival school funding to have at least three years of experience in running such a school, a Native American language nest, or any other educational program in which instruction is conducted in a Native American language. Requires that Native American language restoration programs: (1) operate at least one Native American language program for the community they serve, (2) train teachers of such languages. And (3) develop Native American language instructional materials. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2012.
Interest on Business Checking Act of 2001 - Amends the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to: (1) provide that a depository institution may permit owners of interest or dividend paying accounts to make up to 24 transfers monthly for any purpose to their other demand deposits in the same institution. And (2) repeal the proscription against the payment of interest on demand deposits. Prescribes conditions for interest payments on escrow accounts. Amends the Federal Reserve Act to require a Federal reserve bank to pay interest at least quarterly on any balance maintained by a depository institution at the reserve bank to meet its reserve requirements.
New Employee Verification Act of 2008 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to require employers to verify employee identification and employment eligibility under the Electronic Employment Verification System (EEVS) or the Secure Employment Eligibility Verification System (SEEVS) . Permits employers subject to employee verification requirements to do so under EEVS or SEEVS. Sets forth provisions respecting: (1) voluntary and expedited participation. (2) employer penalties for failure to participate in EEVS or SEEVS, (3) employer and employee information and document requirements, (4) employer liability protection, (5) attestation. And (6) consequences of EEVS determinations. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to require a national identification card. Repeals the employment eligibility pilot programs under the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996. Amends title II of the Social Security Act (SSA) to direct the Commissioner of Social Security to establish EEVS utilizing information in the National Directory of New Hires. States that EEVS shall have the capacity to determine whether: (1) employer-submitted information is consistent with information maintained by the Commissioner with respect to US citizens and nationals and by the Secretary of Homeland Security with respect to aliens. And (2) the individual is a citizen or national or is not an unauthorized alien. Sets forth provisions respecting: (1) submission for confirmation of an individual's identification and employment eligibility and related EEVs determinations, (2) administrative and judicial review of employment disapproval, (3) EEVS implementation. And (4) data use by EEVS. Directs the Commissioner to establish SEEVS to provide, through government certified private entities, for verification of identity and employment eligibility respecting new employees Permits an employer to opt out of SEEVS after one year's participation. Sets forth provisions respecting: (1) certification of entities. (2) database management, including limitations on accessibility and the use and storage of biometric data, (3) employer responsibilities, (4) employee protections. And (5) information security and confidentiality, including penalties for violations. Directs the Commissioner to establish the Employment Verification Advisory Council, which shall terminate five years after enactment of this Act. Amends INA to: (1) apply certain antidiscrimination provisions to EEVS and SEEVS, (2) increase civil money penalties for unfair employment practice violations. (3) increase civil money penalties for certain hiring, recruiting, and referral violations. And (4) increase criminal penalties for pattern or practice violations. Amends SSA to: (1) provide for disclosure to the Secretary of Homeland Security of certain National Directory of New Hires information about employees with the greatest number or percentage of mismatched social security information, (2) deny credit toward earnings benefits from unauthorized work, (3) revise totalization agreement provisions. And (4) prohibit survivor's lump sum death payments to individuals who have been removed from the United States under INA.
Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum Act or the AIRWAVES Act This bill requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to complete auctionsnbsp, by December 31, 2020, that willnbsp. Grant priority access broadcast licenses for specified frequency spectrum bands. The FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration are directed to identify frequenciesnbsp, innbsp, specified spectrumnbsp, bandsnbsp. That may be utilized for non-federal unlicensed use and commercial licensed use. The FCC must allocate 10 of proceeds from each of the spectrum band auctions specified in the billnbsp, tonbsp. Expand wireless infrastructure in rural areas that are underserved or unserved. The FCC shall conduct a study on how unlicensed frequency spectrum bandsnbsp. Can be utilized for: (1) the provision of healthcare in rural areas, (2) distance learning, and (3) facilitating innovations in agriculture.
Amends Federal law to require the Director of the National Weather Service to notify the Secretary of Health and Human Services of a heat emergency. Establishes an Emergency Cooling Fund to provide assistance to low-income families and senior citizens during a declared heat emergency. Makes senior citizens eligible for heat related assistance. Provides for the use of energy assistance funds during a heat emergency. Directs that the Administrator of the General Services Administration shall: (1) be notified of any declared heat emergency. And (2) expedite distribution of air conditioning units and other cooling equipment to affected localities.
Cure and Understanding through Research for Alzheimer's Act of 2008 or La Cura Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to ensure sufficient resources for activities relating to Alzheimer's disease and Hispanic communities, including by: (1) increasing efforts in epidemiological work in Hispanic subgroups. (2) allocating resources to the National Institute on Aging Alzheimer's disease research centers and other academic centers involved in such research to increase participation of Hispanics and other underrepresented ethnic groups in research and clinical trials in sufficient numbers to draw valid conclusions. And (3) conducting social, behavioral, and health services research to understand the underlying reasons why Hispanic individuals delay diagnosis and underutilize services, to identify culturally and linguistically appropriate approaches to address such delays and underutilization, and to identify approaches for providing, and improving the quality of, culturally competent care. Requires the Director to expand and intensify NIH efforts to educate communities about the importance of research relating to Alzheimer's disease and to respond effectively to cultural concerns about participation in such research. Authorizes appropriations for a program of grants to states to carry out demonstration programs related to Alzheimer's disease. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to conduct an aggressive, evidence-based education and outreach program to promote public awareness and risk reduction with respect to Alzheimer's disease, particularly to Hispanic populations.
Airline Consumer Protection Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to issue a final rule to require an air carrier to: seek, for a delay exceeding three hours, a cancellation, or a misconnection as a result of circumstances within the air carrier's control, alternative transportation for a displaced passenger. And accept, for a reasonable fee, a displaced passenger from another air carrier or a passenger involuntarily denied boarding due to a lack of available seats. The Government Accountability Office shall submit a report that reviews airline computer network functions. Any air carrier schedule change resulting from a computer network disruption, security breach, or other inoperability may be considered an event within a carrier's control. DOT shall: publish a final rule to require an air carrier to submit to the Federal Aviation Administration a plan for restoring full functionality of its computer network systems in the event of a service disruption, establish an airline industry computer network resiliency working group. Modify federal regulations to require each air carrier to adopt a contingency plan for any delay, cancellation, or misconnection affecting a passenger. And issue regulations to ensure that a ticketed passenger shall not pay a fee to select an alternative flight if the aircraft's lavatory is not functioning.
Enhanced Dental Care for Veterans Act of 2013 - Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to furnish additional dental services and treatment, and dental appliances, needed to restore functioning in a veteran that is lost due to VA services or treatment furnished to such veteran. Directs the Secretary to: (1) carry out a three-year pilot program for furnishing dental care to veterans not otherwise eligible for dental services and treatment under current VA programs, (2) carry out a program of education to promote dental health for veterans, and (3) enable private sector dental care providers to submit information on dental care provided to veterans under the pilot program for inclusion in VA electronic medical records.
Home Health Care Planning Improvement Act of 2007 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to revise conditions of and limitations on payment for home health care services. Allows payment for home health services to Medicare beneficiaries by: (1) a nurse practitioner. (2) a clinical nurse specialist working in collaboration with a physician in accordance with state law, (3) a certified nurse-midwife, or (4) a physician assistant under a physician's supervision.
Gun Show Loophole Closing Act of 2017 This bill makes it unlawful for any person to operate a gun show unless such person: (1) has attained 21 years of age. (2) is not prohibited from transporting, shipping, or receiving firearms and has not violated any federal firearms requirements. (3) has registered with the Department of Justice (DOJ) as a gun show operator and has provided a photograph and fingerprints. (4) has not concealed material information nor made false statements in connection with a gun show operator registration. And (5) notifies DOJ of the date, time, and duration of a gun show not later than 30 days before the commencement of such show and verifies the identity of each vendor at the gun show. The bill makes it unlawful for a person not licensed under this bill to transfer possession of a firearm at a gun show to another person not licensed unless a licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer has, among other conditions, recorded the transfer with DOJ. Additionally, the licensed dealer must notify the prospective transferor and transferee of the firearm that the national instant criminal background check system has provided the dealer with a unique identification number indicating that the receipt of the firearm would not violate certain federal or state firearm laws. The bill grants DOJ authority to enter, without a showing of reasonable cause or a warrant, any place where a gun show is held or where a gun show operator is required to maintain records to examine records and inventory to determine compliance with this bill.
Congressional Pension Forfeiture Act of 1997 - Amends Federal law to provide that any service as a Member of Congress of an individual convicted of one of specified offenses committed while a Member and directly related to the individual's service during the 106th Congress or later shall not be taken into account as creditable service for purposes of annuity or retirement provisions. Includes among such offenses: (1) bribery of public officials, (2) conspiracy to defraud the Government with respect to claims, (3) making or receiving expenditures to influence voting, (4) acting as an agent of a foreign principal, (5) frauds and swindles. And (6) tax evasion. Entitles such individual to be paid so much of such individual's lump-sum credit as is attributable to such service. Prohibits: (1) the individual, while serving as a Member after the date of the conviction, from being eligible to participate in the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees Retirement System. And (2) interest from being computed on such lump-sum payment for the period after the conviction or commission of the violation, or after September 26, 1961, whichever is later.
Emigrant Wilderness Historical Use Preservation Act - Requires the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to ensure that all pack and saddle stock uses within the Emigrant Wilderness of Stanislaus National Forest in California are recognized as appropriate wilderness activities, including the effect on soil, water, and vegetation. Prohibits any action from being taken to limit or exclude pack and saddle stock without an environmental analysis with a finding that the actions are necessary to preserve the wilderness character of the area to that which existed at the time of the designation. States that historical uses and activities, including commercial outfitting and guiding, camping, pack stock grazing. And associated campfires, tent locations, and social trails are traditional uses. Requires signs of use created by these activities to be considered substantially unnoticeable and acceptable as long as they do not exceed the level present at the time of the designation. Requires the USDA to take actions to ensure that these levels are not exceeded. Direct the USDA to complete an updated wilderness plan to preserve pack and saddle stock use and all legally acceptable recreational uses within the area. Specifies requirements for the plan. Requires the USDA to continue to authorize commercial pack and saddle stock services and issue authorizations to provide commercial services for commercial stock operations within the area at historic levels. Requires the USDA to specify levels of use, user days, and activities by commercial outfitters and guides.
This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to require tax-exempt organizations to disclose details regarding employees and board members involved in terror finance activities. An organization applying for tax-exempt status must disclose in its application the names and addresses of any officer, director, trustee, or highly compensated employee who, at any time prior to the date of the application, was: a member or employee of an organization: (1) named on the Department of the Treasury's Designated Charities and Potential Fundraising Front Organizations for FTOs list, or (2) with property that has been blocked pending investigation by Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. An unindicted coconspirator with respect to a terror finance scheme of an organization described above, or an employee of any charity found liable for civil damages due to an act of international terrorism. In lieu of the disclosure, the organization may include a statement indicating that no officer, director, trustee, or highly compensated employee of the organization meets the criteria described above. Tax-exempt organizations must also include either the required disclosure or the statement in annual tax returns filed after the enactment of this bill.
National Hurricane Research Initiative Act of 2006 - Requires the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere of the Department of Commerce and the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to establish a National Hurricane Research Initiative and to cooperate with other specified federal agencies to carry it out. Requires such Initiative to set research objectives to: (1) make recommendations to the Board. (2) assemble the expertise of US science and engineering capabilities through a multi-agency effort focused on infrastructure, the natural environment, and improving understanding of hurricane prediction, intensity, and mitigation on coastal populations. And (3) make grants for hurricane research, including regarding hurricane dynamics, modification, and observation, air-sea interaction, relationships between hurricanes and climate, predicting flooding and storm surge, coastal infrastructure, building construction, emergency communication networks, information utilization by public officials, and sharing computational capability. Directs the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, through the National Science and Technology Council, to coordinate US activities related to the Initiative as a formal program with a well-defined organizational structure and execution plan. Directs the Under Secretary and the Director to: (1) establish a National Infrastructure Database to catalog infrastructure, provide information to improve information public policy related to hurricanes, and provide data to improve researchers' abilities to measure hurricane impacts in order to improve building codes and urban planning. And (2) develop a National Hurricane Research Model to conduct integrative research and facilitate the transfer of research knowledge to operational applications.
Traveler Redress Improvement Act of 2017 This bill directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to ensure the availability of the Department of Homeland Security Traveler Redress Inquiry Program redress process to adjudicate inquiries for individuals who: are US citizens or aliens lawfully admitted for permanent residence, have filed an inquiry with DHS TRIP after receiving enhanced screening at an airport security checkpoint more than three times in a 60-day period, and believe they have been wrongly identified as being a threat to aviation security. TSA shall review and update the Privacy Impact Assessment for the Secure Flight programs for accuracy and make such assessment available to the public on TSA's website. TSA shall also review its intelligence-based screening rules, notify specified federal agencies of any rule changes, and ensure such rules are incorporated in the risk analysis conducted during the Federal Air Marshal mission scheduling process. The Government Accountability Office shall: study the effectiveness of such rules in identifying and mitigating potential threats to aviation security. And examine coordination between the TSA, DHS, and other relevant partners relating to changing, updating, implementing, or suspending such rules as necessary.
Green Affordable Housing Act of 2009 - Requires the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to carry out a program of grants and loans to owners of specified eligible federally assisted housing projects for making eligible green retrofit improvements to such projects. Conditions such grants or loans on a HUD approved retrofit plan by the owners of such projects.
Investing in Neighborhood-focused, Vital, Evidence-based Strategies and Trust to Prevent Crime Act of 2016 or the INVEST to Prevent Crime Act This bill amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to establish a grant program for governments, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher education to prepare a comprehensive plan and enhance community capacity to address crime through collaborative cross-sector approaches.
Community Health Center Volunteer Provider Protection Act of 2005 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to deem volunteer practitioners at health centers as employees of the Public Health Service for purposes of any civil action that may arise due to providing services to patients at such health centers. Defines volunteer practitioner as a licensed physician who: (1) at the request of the entity, provides services to patients of a public or nonprofit entity receiving Federal funds for serving medically underserved areas. (2) provides such service at a site at which the entity operates or at a site designated by the entity. And (3) does not receive any compensation for the provision of services. Requires the Comptroller General to study the adequacy of funding for liability coverage for: (1) public or nonprofit private entities receiving federal funds for health centers, and (2) volunteer practitioners serving such centers.
Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Amendments Act - Amends the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Act to cover employers of 50 or more employees . Covers single-site plant closings or mass layoffs affecting 25 or more employees . Eliminates the single-site requirement for plant closings or mass layoffs affecting 100 or more employees, thus covering such closings or layoffs by one employer regardless of the number of sites involved. Specifies that the 90-day aggregate rule covers all related layoffs within that period, whether or not they are each above or below the threshold levels. Extends coverage to part-time employees. Revises the notice period based on the number of employees affected: (1) 25-49, 30 days, (2) 50-99, 60 days. And (3) 100 or more, 90 days. Requires employer notice to each affected employee . Revises and adds enforcement requirements. Adds to employer liability for violations: (1) interest on back pay owed. And (2) an additional amount as liquidated damages equal to the back pay and interest. Limits a good faith exemption to reduction of liability for interest and for a civil penalty. Allows aggrieved employees to enforce employer liability by bringing suit andor filing a complaint with the Secretary of Labor. Directs the Secretary to investigate and resolve such complaints. Authorizes the Secretary to bring civil actions on behalf of the employee for back pay, interest, benefits, and liquidated damages. Establishes a two-year statute of limitations. Requires employers to post notices to employees of pertinent provisions of the Act and information on filing complaints. Establishes fines for willful violations of such posting requirement.
Native Language Immersion Student Achievement Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants to schools and private or tribal nonprofit organizations to develop and maintain, or improve and expand, programs that support the use by schools, from the prekindergarten through postsecondary level, of Native American languages as their primary language of instruction. Requires grant applicants to present the Secretary with specified assurances and demonstrations that the schools they will support have the capacity to provide education primarily through a Native American language. Requires grantees to: support Native American language education and development. Develop or refine instructional curricula for the schools they support, including distinctive teaching materials and activities. Fund training opportunities for school staff that strengthen the overall language and academic goals of their schools. And engage in other activities that promote Native American language education and development.
Rape Survivor Child Custody Act - Directs the Attorney General to make grants to states that have in place a law that allows the mother of any child that was conceived through rape to seek court-ordered termination of the parental rights of her rapist with regard to that child, which the court shall grant upon clear and convincing evidence of rape. Limits such a grant to: (1) an amount that is not greater than 10 of the average of the total funding of the 3 most recent awards a state received under the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program and the Sexual Assault Services Program. And (2) a 1-year term, subject to renewal for not more than 3 additional years. Requires a state that receives such a grant to use: (1) 25 of grant funds for permissible uses under the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant Program, and (2) 75 of funds for permissible uses under the Sexual Assault Services Program.
Patient Health and Real Medication Access Cost Savings Act of 2009 or the PHARMACY Bill - Declares that a consumer shall have the right to choose to purchase prescription drugs from any domestic pharmacy that meets all applicable federal and state license and permit requirements. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to issue regulations that: (1) prohibit a pharmacy benefit manager (PBM) from providing incentives to, encouraging, or requiring pharmacy benefit plan enrollees to use certain pharmacies or from excluding an eligible pharmacy from a plan's pharmacy network. (2) require a PBM to ensure that pharmacy benefit plan enrollees pay a specified copayment for brand name drugs. (3) require a PBM to reimburse a pharmacy in the network of a pharmacy benefit plan that is federally funded, at specified rates, for brand-name drugs, generic drugs, and additional professional services. (4) require a PBM to be reimbursed by a pharmacy benefit plan sponsor for adjudicating and processing claims. (5) limit the amount that a PBM charges a pharmacy benefit plan sponsor for a drug that is dispensed to enrollees to the amount the PBM paid the pharmacy for such drug. (6) require a manufacturer of prescription drugs to pay all rebates directly to the pharmacy benefit plan sponsor and not to a PBM. And (7) require a pharmacy benefit plan sponsor to provide a list of the wholesale acquisition costs of the top 500 most frequently prescribed drugs to physicians in a plan any insurance-related charge of which is underwritten by a federal, state, or local government. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to include pharmacist services as medical and other health services under Medicare. Directs the Secretary, by January 1, 2011, to establish a pharmaceutical access program to provide affordable prescription drugs to individuals who receive drug benefits under federal programs . Requires: (1) a pharmacy that dispenses prescription drugs in the United States to remit to the Secretary 50 cents for each brand name prescription and $1.00 for generic drug prescription dispensed. And (2) the sponsor of a pharmacy benefit plan that is not federally funded to increase the professional dispensing fee paid to pharmacies by the same amounts. Requires the use of funds generated from such fees to provide affordable access to prescription drugs to low-income individuals who have enrolled in the program.
Mortgage Cancellation Relief Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income amounts up to $50,000 attributable to the discharge of certain residential mortgage obligations.
Requires the Secretary to develop and publish criteria to determine which projects would qualify and have the highest priority for financing. Requires such criteria to address at a minimum: (1) how the project relates to the near-and long-term water demands and supplies in the study area, including how the project would affect the need for development of new or expanded water supplies, (2) the relative amount of water to be conserved. (3) whether the project would provide operational efficiency improvements or achieve water, energy, or economic savings at a rate of acre feet of water or kilowatt energy saved per dollar expended on construction of the project. And (4) if the project proponents have met the following project requirements. Requires a project sponsor seeking Federal funding under this program to: (1) provide a report that includes an analysis showing how the project would reduce, postpone, or eliminate development of new or expanded water supplies, and a description of conservation measures to be taken, (2) provide a project plan. And (3) sign a cost-sharing agreement with the Secretary that commits the non-Federal project sponsor to annual funding of its proportionate share of the project's construction costs. Requires the Secretary to determine: (1) that the project sponsor is financially capable of funding the project's non-Federal share of the project's costs. And (2) within one year after the date the project is submitted for approval, whether a project meets the criteria. Permits project sponsors to contract with the Secretary to prepare such reports. Authorizes the Secretary, through specified projects that meet the review criteria and project requirements, to conduct or participate in funding engineering work, infrastructure construction and improvements for conserving and transporting raw water. Limits: (1) the non-Federal share of the costs of any such activity to 50 percent. And (2) payments by the State to 40 percent of such costs. Permits the remainder of the non-Federal share to include in-kind contributions of goods and services, and funds previously spent on feasibility and engineering studies. Authorizes appropriations.
Urban Recovery and Growth Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to authorize the issuance of economic development extension bonds for the purpose of economic development or refinancing the indebtedness of a city that has an average unemployment rate of not less than 150 of the national average in the preceding calendar year and that has lost at least 20 of its population between 2000 and 2010.
Education for Retirement Security Act of 2002 - Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to eligible entities to provide financial education programs to mid-life and older individuals who reside in local communities in order to: (1) enhance financial and retirement knowledge among them. And (2) reduce financial abuse and fraud, including telemarketing, mortgage, and pension fraud, among them. Authorizes the Secretary to award a grant to one or more eligible entities to: (1) create and make available instructional materials and information that promote financial education. And (2) provide training and other related assistance regarding the establishment of financial education programs.
th Anniversary of the Texas Western College Men's Basketball Championship Commemorative Coin Act Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue not more than 50,000 $5 coins, 400,000 $1 coins, and 750,000 half-dollar coins emblematic of the game of basketball. Requires all sales of such coins to include specified surcharges, which shall be paid by the Secretary to the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame to help finance renovations of existing National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame facilities.
Preserving and Reforming SSDI (PAR-SSDI) Act of 2016 This bill amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act (SSAct) to: direct the Social Security Administration (SSA), in determining whether an individual is under a disability, to make such a determination without regard to the individual's ability to communicate in English. Prohibit the SSA, in determining whether an individual is under a disability for a month, from considering the individual's vocational background in computing the quarters of coverage requirement unless the individual had not less than 16 quarters of coverage during the 24-quarter period ending with the quarter in which such month occurs. And direct the SSA to prepare and implement a complete update of the vocational and educational factors considered in making disability determinations. The bill declares that for any week in whole or in part within a month that an individual is paid or determined to be eligible for unemployment compensation he or she shall be deemed to have engaged in substantial gainful activity and so be disqualified from receiving Social Security disability benefits after a certain period has elapsed. The bill also states that, for purposes of determining services rendered by an individual during a period of trial work which will not disqualify the individual for disability benefits, the individual shall be deemed to have rendered services in a month if he or she is entitled to unemployment compensation or trade adjustment assistance for that month. The bill revises prerequisites for the entitlement of certain individuals under age 65 to SSAct title XVIII (Medicare) part A hospital insurance benefits. The length of time such an individual must be entitled to disability insurance, child's insurance, or widow's insurance benefits, in order to qualify for entitlement to Medicare part A hospital benefits, shall increase from the current 24 months to 60 months. If the amount of an individual's unearned income for a month is equal to or greater than the monthly income limit for that month, the individual shall be deemed to have engaged in substantial gainful activity for the month for purposes of determining disability insurance benefit payments. The SSA must receive from an individual andor the individual's representative, in its entirety and without redaction, all known relevant medical evidence related to a disability claim. Any medical evidence not submitted in its entirety or not furnished by a licensed practitioner shall be excluded in disability determinations. In determining whether a disability benefits applicant is disabled, the SSA shall not consider medical evidence resulting from a consultative exam with a health care provider unless the application is accompanied by a Medical Consultant Acknowledgment Form signed by the health care provider who conducted the exam. The bill changes the index used to calculate OASDI cost-of-living adjustments to the Chained Price Index for All Urban Consumers. In any case in which SSA initiates a review of disability benefits for an individual, the review shall include an independent estimate by a qualified Social Security income verification contractor of the individual's monthly income.
Temporary Duty Suspension Process Act of 2012 - Directs the US International Trade Commission (USITC) to establish a process in which it will: (1) review each article in which a temporary duty suspension or reduction has been recommended at its own initiative or pusuant to a petition, and (2) submit a draft bill to the appropriate congressional committees containing each duty suspension or reduction that meets certain requirements. Requires the USITC to report to appropriate congressional committees on: (1) recommendations with respect to sectors of the US economy that could benefit from duty suspensions or reductions without causing harm to other domestic interests, and (2) the feasibility of suspending or reducing duties on a sectoral basis rather than on individual articles.
Declares that the Secretary, if he or she fails to report or if the report fails to certify that the Fund has complied with the requirements of this Act, shall: (1) not make any foreign loans. And (2) cause the reserve tranche position of the United States at the Fund to be maintained at a certain level. Prohibits any US officer or employee from providing any thing of value to the Fund for the purpose of providing resources to, or supporting the activities of the Facility or any other concessional lending facility of the Fund. Requires the US director at the Fund to use every effort to terminate the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility.
Stop Trafficking of Pills Act or STOP Act - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require state Medicaid plans to: (1) identify prescription drugs that present a high-risk of misuse or overutilization, (2) establish a dosage level for each such drug that would be deemed excessive in the absence of evidence of medical necessity, (3) identify Medicaid-eligible individuals who are either receiving a prescription drug at excessive dosage levels or who have been convicted of a drug-related offense, and (4) ensure that they are assigned to a state-established restricted recipient program. Requires a state to establish a Medicaid Lock-in Program to ensure that a high-risk prescription drug user is assigned to: (1) a single and exclusive physician for purposes of receiving any medical assistance related to a prescription drug, and (2) a single and exclusive pharmacy to receive any physician-prescribed drug. Requires a state to establish a Medicaid prescription drug restriction program to ensure that the state claims processing system does not permit a prescription drug to be dispensed to a high-risk prescription drug user more than once every 20 days. Amends part D (Miscellaneous) of SSA title XXVIII (Medicare) to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a similar restricted recipient program for high-risk prescription drug users under the Medicare program.
Federal Bureau of Investigation First Amendment Protection Act of 1993 - Prohibits the Federal Bureau of Investigation from conducting any investigation that may involve the collection of information about the exercise by a US person of first amendment rights, except in conformance with specified procedures and standards.
Sugar Competitiveness Act of 1995 - Amends the Agricultural Act of 1949 to replace current sugar price support provisions with recourse loans to sugarcane and sugar beet producers. Reduces sugarcane loan rates from 18 cents per pound to 12 cents per pound over three years. Prohibits sugar price supports. Provides for the conversion of any current nonrecourse loans that are extended into recourse loans. Extends and increases sugar marketing assessment provisions. Includes imported sugar within such provisions' scope. Provides for the regulation of imported raw sugarcane at prices not greater than the world sugar price or the raw sugarcane loan rate. Amends the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 to terminate sugar marketing quota and allotment provisions.
Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promote the pharmacist profession through public health service announcements, including grants for State and local advertising campaigns. Directs the Secretary to establish a demonstration project to enhance the participation of pharmacists in the National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program through the provision of medication therapy management services. Requires participants to follow Program requirements but excludes them from consideration when health professional shortage areas are designated. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants or contracts to qualifying schools of pharmacy for computer-based systems for pharmaceutical education. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2003 through 2006.
Endangered Species Criminal and Civil Penalties Liability Reform Act - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to define take to mean to knowingly and intentionally perform any act with the knowledge that the act would constitute harassing, harming, pursuing, hunting, shooting, wounding, killing, trapping, capturing, or collecting an individual member of a species that was present at the time and location of the act, or to attempt to engage in such conduct. Prohibits a person from being liable for any criminal or civil penalty for a violation committed while conducting an otherwise lawful activity and not for the purpose of a prohibited taking, unless: (1) the Secretary of the Interior provides the person with notice of the violation. And (2) the person fails to terminate and correct the activity constituting the violation by not later than 30 days after the date of the notice. Requires each conservation plan developed to include provisions under which persons who have entered into, and are in compliance with, the conservation plan may not, without their consent, be required to undertake any additional mitigation measures for species covered by the plan if the measures would require payment or compliance with use, development, or management restrictions on any land, waters, or water related rights, in addition to payments or compliance, respectively, otherwise required under the terms of the plan. Requires such provisions, among other matters, to identify modifications to the plan or additional conservation measures, if any, that the Secretary may require under extraordinary circumstances. Makes it an affirmative defense, in any enforcement action or citizen suit in which it is alleged that a defendant acted or failed to act with respect to a member of an endangered or threatened species, that the defendant could not reasonably have known that the fish or wildlife or plant concerned is a member of an endangered or threatened species. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) enter into safe harbor agreements with non-Federal persons to benefit the conservation of endangered or threatened species by creating, restoring, or improving habitat or by maintaining currently unoccupied habitat. And (2) provide a grant of up to $10,000 to any individual private landowner to assist the landowner in carrying out such an agreement.
Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act Countering Iran's Destabilizing Activities Act of 2017 This bill directs the President to impose sanctions against: (1) Iran's ballistic missile or weapons of mass destruction programs, (2) the sale or transfer to Iran of military equipment or the provision of related technical or financial assistance, and (3) Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and affiliated foreign persons. The President may impose sanctions against persons responsible for violations of internationally recognized human rights committed against individuals in Iran. The President may temporarily waive the imposition or continuation of sanctions under specified circumstances. Countering Russian Influence in Europe and Eurasia Act of 2017 The President must submit for congressional review certain proposed actions to terminate or waive sanctions with respect to the Russian Federation. Specified executive order sanctions against Russia shall remain in effect. The President may waive specified cyber- and Ukraine-related sanctions. The bill provides sanctions for activities concerning: (1) cyber security, (2) crude oil projects, (3) financial institutions, (4) corruption, (5) human rights abuses, (6) evasion of sanctions, (7) transactions with Russian defense or intelligence sectors, (8) export pipelines, (9) privatization of state-owned assets by government officials, and (10) arms transfers to Syria. The Department of State shall work with the government of Ukraine to increase Ukraine's energy security. The bill: (1) directs the Department of the Treasury to develop a national strategy for combating the financing of terrorism, and (2) includes the Secretary of the Treasury on the National Security Council. Korean Interdiction and Modernization of Sanctions Act The bill modifies and increases the President's authority to impose sanctions on persons in violation of certain United Nations Security Council resolutions regarding North Korea. US financial institutions shall not establish or maintain correspondent accounts used by foreign financial institutions to provide indirect financial services to North Korea. A foreign government that provides to or receives from North Korea a defense article or service is prohibited from receiving certain types of US foreign assistance. The bill provides sanctions against: (1) North Korean cargo and shipping, (2) goods produced in whole or part by North Korean convict or forced labor, and (3) foreign persons that employ North Korean forced laborers. The State Department shall submit a determination regarding whether North Korea meets the criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism.
Young and Beginning Farmers Act This bill amends various agricultural laws to modify and establish programs to assist beginning farmers. The bill makes land trusts eligible for certain assistance under the Department of Agriculture (USDA) Agricultural Conservation Easement Program. In administering the program, USDA must prioritize an application for purchasing an easement that maintains agricultural viability, requires subsequent purchases to be at agricultural value, or both. The bill modifies several agricultural programs to: require the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to prequalify loan applicants, increase and index for inflation the limits on the amounts of USDA farm ownership loans, transfer jurisdiction of the Advisory Committee on Beginning Farmers and Ranchers to the FSA, establish an online customer self-service portal, reauthorize the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program with increased mandatory funding and allow specified funds to be transferred for individual development accounts, reauthorize the Beginning Farmer and Rancher Individual Development Accounts Pilot Program, reauthorize the Farmers Market and Local Food Promotion Program with increased mandatory funding, and authorize grants for farm viability programs. The FSA must assign state coordinators to promote communication with beginning farmers or ranchers and increase their access to USDA programs. The General Services Administration may sell surplus farm equipment or property to socially disadvantaged, veteran, or beginning farmers and ranchers.
Competitive and Open Markets That Protect and Enhance the Treatment of Entrepreneurs Act of 2007, or the Compete Act of 2007 - Amends the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) to revise requirements for the internal control assessment component of a securities issuer's annual report. Requires the attestation and report by a registered public accounting firm on an issuer's management assessment of its internal control structure and procedures to focus upon the process and system used by management to identify and manage risks, identify and implement key controls, and come to a conclusion on the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting. Prohibits an auditor's attestation and report from including a separate (passfail) opinion on the effectiveness of such internal controls. Requires such attestation and report to be performed at three-year intervals. Prescribes standards for such attestations and reports, including a risk-based evaluation. Permits attestations and reports to rely on examinations and inspections by federal and state regulatory agencies. Instructs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to develop a standard of materiality for such assessments and reports based upon the relationship of the internal control to the reasonably possible effects on the financial statements of the issuer, and its significance to the overall financial status of the issuer. Exempts a smaller public company from the requirements for management assessment of internal controls, unless it voluntarily elects to comply with them. Directs the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to jointly conduct studies: (1) examining the lack of, and impediments to, robust competition for the performance of audits for issuers. And (2) comparing and contrasting the principles-based Turnbull Guidance under the British securities laws to the implementation of section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley .
Small Business Child Care Act - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a program to award grants, on a competitive basis, to assist states in providing funds to encourage the establishment and operation of employer-operated child care programs.
Forest Service Financial Accountability Restoration Act of 1999 - Places specified limits on Forest Service appropriations until the earlier of the following: (1) the Service is no longer an agency at high risk of waste, fraud, and mismanagement due to accounting and financial reporting weaknesses. Or (2) the end of the fifth fiscal year subject to such limitations. Enumerates the criteria under which the Comptroller General shall certify to Congress that the Service is no longer at high risk Sets forth Service backlog reduction requirements.
United States-Pakistan Security and Stability Act - Directs the President to develop and transmit to the appropriate congressional committees, with intelligence support from the Director of National Intelligence, a comprehensive interagency strategy and implementation plan for long-term security and stability in Pakistan. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) Pakistan, and (2) the Pakistan Counterinsurgency Capability Fund.
Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Database Act of 2004 or Dru's Law - Directs the Attorney General to: (1) make publicly available in a registry via the Internet, from information contained in the National Sex Offender Registry, specified information about sexually violent predators and persons convicted of a sexually violent offense or a criminal offense against a minor, who are required to register with a minimally sufficient State sexual offender registration program. And (2) allow registry users to identity offenders who are currently residing within a radius of the location indicated by the user. Requires registry information to include the offender's name, address, date of birth, physical description, and photograph, the nature and date of commission of the offense, and the date on which the person is released from prison or placed on parole, supervised release, or probation Requires: (1) any State that provides for a civil commitment proceeding to notify the State attorney general of the impending release of a sexually violent predator or a person has been deemed to be at high-risk for recommitting any sexually violent offense or criminal offense against a minor. (2) the State attorney general to consider instituting a civil commitment proceeding. And (3) each State to intensively monitor, for at least a year, any such person who has been unconditionally released by the State and who has not been civilly committed. Makes a State that fails to implement Act requirements ineligible to receive 25 percent of funds that would otherwise be allocated to it under the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994.
Pathogen Reduction and Testing Reform Act of 2014 - Amends the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act to revise the definition of quot, adulteratedquot. To make explicit the Department of Agriculture's (USDA's) authority to issue a recall of meat, poultry, and egg products that contain microbial pathogens associated with serious illness or death or are resistant to two or more antibiotics critically important for human medicine. Requires the USDA to establish sampling protocols and testing procedures necessary to determine if meat, poultry, and egg products are adulterated under this Act and to prevent the entry, flow, or movement of those products into commerce.
Grants a Federal charter to Black Veterans of America .
Water Infrastructure Resiliency and Sustainability Act of 2011 - Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) establish the Water Infrastructure Resiliency and Sustainability Program to provide grants to owners or operators of water systems for programs or projects to increase the resiliency or adaptability of the systems to any ongoing or forecasted changes to the hydrologic conditions of a US region. And (2) give priority to owners or operators of water systems that are at the greatest and most immediate risk of facing significant negative impacts due to changing hydrologic conditions. Requires the Administrator to ensure that the list of grant applications funded include a substantial number that propose to use innovative approaches that: (1) promote more efficient water use, water conservation, water reuse, or recycling. (2) use decentralized, low-impact development technologies and nonstructural approaches, including practices that use, enhance, or mimic the natural hydrological cycle or protect natural flows. (3) reduce stormwater runoff or flooding by protecting or enhancing natural ecosystem functions. (4) modify, upgrade, enhance, or replace existing water system infrastructure in response to changing hydrologic conditions. (5) improve water quality or quantity for agricultural and municipal uses, including through salinity reduction. And (6) provide multiple benefits, including to water supply enhancement or demand reduction, water quality protection or improvement, increased flood protection, and ecosystem protection or improvement.
Making Education Affordable Act This bill amends title VII of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to reauthorize through FY2018 the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) program. The bill also authorizes new grants under the FIPSE program. Specifically, the Department of Education may award grants to institutions of higher education for dual or concurrent enrollment programs or early college high school programs that allow high school students to earn college credits.
Making Home Affordable Improvements Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to provide assistance in specified amounts to the National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling Program (Program) of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (NRC) for foreclosure mitigation counseling activities in connection with the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) of the Making Home Affordable initiative. Directs the Program to distribute funds to grantee housing counseling agencies in good standing. Directs the NRC to establish a procedure by which the Program shall direct funds to such agencies. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) revise HAMP guidelines to provide for monthly collection by the Secretary of the Treasury from each participating mortgage servicer and lender of comprehensive data on its activities. And (2) report such data to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), report it to Congress, and make it publicly available on the Treasury World Wide Web site.
Nuclear Safety and Promotion Act - Amends the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to reauthorize until August 1, 2012, mandatory indemnification and holding harmless of certain licensees for nuclear incidents . Repeals the prohibition against foreign ownership of commercial, medical therapy, and research and development licenses issued by the NRC. Provides that the duration of the operating phase of the license period for certain combined construction and operating licenses shall not be less than the duration of the operating license if application had been made for separate construction and operating licenses. Prohibits the NRC from giving any consideration to need or alternative when conducting any environmental review regarding a facility license application or renewal. Eliminates antitrust review of NRC license applications. Authorizes the NRC to prescribe regulations to ensure the availability of sufficient decommissioning funds for certain production or utilization facilities, including standards and restrictions governing former licensee control and disbursement over any facility decommissioning fund. Authorizes the NRC to eliminate the pension offset governing former NRC employees rehired as consultants if the annuitant has skills critical to the performance of NRC duties. Repeals the requirements that the NRC promulgate implementation rules governing conflicts of interest relating to contracts. Authorizes the NRC enter into a contract with a national laboratory if it takes reasonable steps to mitigate the effect of the conflict of interest. Instructs the NRC to implement a training and fellowship program to address shortages of critical safety skills.
Implements of Torture Export Control Act of 2004 - Prohibits the Secretary of Commerce from approving crime control and detection instruments and equipment for export (except to any North Atlantic Treaty Organization unless pursuant to an individual export license. Prohibits the Secretary from approving the export of such instruments, and any equipment especially susceptible to abuse as implements of torture, to any country if its government, or any group supported by or acting on behalf of that government, has repeatedly engaged in acts of torture during the 12-month period preceding the date of the application to export the item. Authorizes the Secretary, notwithstanding such prohibitions, to approve the export of any such item if the Secretary of State determines that the end user has not engaged in acts of torture. Prohibits the export to all destinations of: (1) any leg irons, handcuffs, and thumbcuffs with sharp or serrated edges. (2) saps, blackjacks, brass knuckles, and other easily concealed devices designed to administer severe blows to the body, (3) electroshock stun belts, (4) items specially designed as implements of torture. (5) batons or clubs fitted with spikes or other hard protuberances. And (6) components produced for incorporation into these items and the technology used for the development or production of these items. Requires the Secretary shall establish and publish in the Federal Register a list of crime control and detection instruments, and equipment especially susceptible to abuse as implements of torture. Requires the Secretary to: (1) ensure that all appropriate agency heads are fully consulted before an individual export license for such an item is granted. And (2) approve or deny an export license application for such instruments or equipment only in concurrence with the recommendations of the Secretary of State.
Prohibits, subject to an existing provision, an alien who on May 8, 2008, was a resident of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) from being removed from the United States on the grounds of illegal presence in the CNMI prior to the date that is five years after the transition program effective date if such alien is lawfully present in the CNMI on such date and is: (1) a permanent resident of the CNMI, (2) an immediate relative of a citizen. Or (3) the parent of a citizen who was under 21 years old. Makes such an alien parent eligible for a special nonimmigrant visa. Specifies conditions for such visa, including the requirement that the parent reside in the CNMI. Makes an alien who, as of May 8, 2008, was subject to CNMI immigration regulations eligible for a special nonimmigrant visa. Provides that such visa shall: (1) grant the alien all the privileges of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence except that the alien must reside in the CNMI. And (2) be valid until the earlier of the date on which the alien adjusts to permanent resident status or the date on which the alien ceases to reside in the CNMI. Makes an alien who, as of May 8, 2008, was subject to CNMI immigration regulations eligible for adjustment to permanent resident status if such alien applies for adjustment between January 1, 2014-November 28, 2014. Extends the effective date of the CNMI visitor entry program for 180 days. Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to administer the program during such 180-day period consistent with CNMI provisions governing the program that were in effect prior to the commencement of such period. Amends the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008 to: (1) direct the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of DHS to reduce the fees for family-based immigration benefit applications and petitions collected from CNMI residents who had immediate relative status pursuant to CNMI immigration laws as of May 8, 2008, and (2) waive related sponsor income requirements.
Judicial Transparency and Ethics Enhancement Act of 2017 This bill amends the federal judicial code to establish the Office of Inspector General for the Judicial Branch to investigate alleged misconduct in the judicial branch, including the Supreme Court, to conduct and supervise audits and investigations, and to prevent and detect waste, fraud, and abuse.
Requires the Secretary to report to Congress evaluating: (1) each conversion that was carried out since October 1, 1996. And (2) each function that was considered for conversion since such date, but not converted. Directs the Secretary, on account of such moratorium, to provide for an adjustment in the operating budgets of the armed forces and military installations to compensate for the fact that such budgets were previously reduced to reflect savings anticipated from the conversion of such functions to private sector performance.
Trade and Environment Reporting Act of 1994 - Requires the United States Trade Representative (USTR), at the onset of negotiations for any free trade agreement or other major trade actions, to consult with the Congress, appropriate advisory committees, including the Trade and Environment Policy Advisory Committee, Federal agencies, environmental organizations, and other interested persons, for the purpose of: (1) identifying environmental resources and Federal and State environmental laws that may be affected by such agreements or actions. And (2) determining the scope of a specified environmental assessment in the case of a negotiation for a free trade agreement. Directs the USTR to prepare an environmental assessment for each free trade agreement. Directs the USTR to: (1) consider the results of such consultations with respect to a major trade action before formulating any negotiating position for such action. And (2) review such negotiating position and determine its compatibility with US laws that protect environmental resources or encourage sustainable development. Directs the Council on Environmental Quality: (1) to monitor the effects of major trade actions on environmental resources within the United States. And (2) together with the Secretary of State to cooperate with other nations to monitor and determine the effects of such actions on such resources outside the United States. Requires the Council to report every three years to the Congress on the results of such monitoring.
Foreign Service Overseas Pay Equity Act of 2008 - Amends the Foreign Service Act of 1980 to: (1) extend comparability pay adjustments to Foreign Service members assigned abroad. And (2) amend the death gratuity computation payable to surviving dependents of Foreign Service employees who die from injuries sustained in the performance of duty abroad.
American Farm Protection Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from the gross estate tax the value of land subject to a qualified conservation easement . Includes in the gross estate tax the value of each development right retained by the donor in the conveyance of the easement. Makes such tax due upon the disposition of the property. Provides that such land subject to the exclusion will have a carryover basis for purposes of determining gain or loss. Excludes from the gift tax transfers by gift of land subject to a conservation easement. Declares that for purposes of the alternative estate valuation method: (1) a qualified conservation contribution is not a disposition. And (2) land subject to a conservation easement is not disqualified.
Digital Era Copyright Enhancement Act - Expands the fair use of a copyrighted work to include uses by analog or digital transmission in connection with teaching, research, and other specified activities. Expands certain rights of libraries and archives to reproduce and distribute copies or phonorecords to authorize three copies or phonorecords to be reproduced or distributed for preservation, security, or replacement purposes. Revises certain limitations on exclusive rights to provide that the following are not infringements: (1) performances, displays, or distributions of copyrighted works by or in the course of analog or digital transmissions in connection with certain distance education activities. And (2) copying works in digital format if such copying is incidental to the operation of a device in the course of the otherwise lawful use of a work, does not conflict with the normal exploitation of the work, and does not unreasonably prejudice the author's interests. Provides that when a work is distributed to the public subject to non-negotiable license terms, such terms shall not be enforceable under the common law or statutes of any State to the extent that they: (1) limit the reproduction, adaptation, distribution, performance, or display of uncopyrightable material. Or (2) abrogate or restrict specified limitations on exclusive rights. Prohibits, for purposes of infringement, the knowing removal, deactivation, or circumvention of technological measures used by a copyright owner to preclude or limit reproduction of a work. Bars the provision or distribution of false copyright management information with the intent to induce or conceal infringement. Defines copyright management information as certain information, including title, name of author and copyright owner, and terms for use of the work, in electronic form as carried in or as data accompanying a copy or a phonorecord of a work. Prohibits the removal or alteration of such information or the distribution of copies or phonorecords so altered with the intent to induce infringement. Establishes civil remedies with respect to violations of technological measure or copyright management information provisions.
Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site Act of 2005 - Instructs the Secretary of Energy to purchase essential mineral rights at the Department of Energy facility, Colorado, known as the Rocky Flats Environmental Technology Site. Includes among conditions for such purchase that certain federal and state officials designated as trustees enter into a natural resources damage settlement providing that the purchase of essential mineral rights satisfies any existing or potential natural resource damage liability claim arising from releases of certain hazardous substances. Requires the settlement to include a covenant not to sue.
Bright Idea Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish technical standards for general service lamps that provide levels of illumination equivalent to those provided by lamps generally available in 2007, but with a lumens per watt rating of at least: (1) 30 by calendar 2013. And (2) 45 by calendar 2018. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) carry out a lighting technology research and development program regarding lamps and related technologies made available in the United States. And (2) assist manufacturers in the manufacturing of general service lamps that achieve the lumens per watt ratings prescribed by this Act. Instructs the Secretary to: (1) implement a national program consumer education program about the benefits of using light bulbs with improved efficiency ratings. And (2) report to Congress recommendations regarding the means by which the federal government may reduce or prevent the release of mercury during the manufacture, transportation, storage, or disposal of light bulbs. Directs the Commissioner sic of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to report to Congress regarding current lamp labeling practices by lamp manufacturers, with recommendations for a national labeling standard.
Family and Medical Leave Enhancement Act - Amends the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to extend coverage to employees at worksites where the employer employs at least 25 employees at the worksite and within 75 miles of that worksite. Allows employees covered by such Act to take up to four hours during any 30-day period, and up to 24 hours during any 12-month period, of parental involvement leave to participate in or attend their children's educational and extracurricular activities. Amends Federal civil service law to apply the same parental involvement leave allowance to Federal employees. Provides that leave under such Act may be taken to meet: (1) routine family medical needs, including transportation of children for medical and dental appointments for annual checkups and vaccinations. And (2) the routine medical care needs of elderly relatives of the eligible employee, including visits to nursing homes and group homes.
Southwest Forest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, to: (1) establish Institutes to promote the use of adaptive ecosystem management to reduce the risk of wildfires and restore the health of forest and woodland ecosystems in the interior West. And (2) assist the Institutes in promoting the use of collaborative processes and adaptive ecosystems management. Requires, initially, the establishment of three Institutes, with: (1) one in Arizona, at Northern Arizona University. (2) one in New Mexico, at New Mexico Highlands University, while engaging the full resources of the consortium of universities represented in the Institute of Natural Resource Analysis and Management. And (3) one in Colorado. Defines the term adaptive ecosystem management to mean a natural resource management process under which planning, implementation, monitoring, research, evaluation, and incorporation of new knowledge are combined into a management approach that: (1) is based on scientific findings and the needs of society, (2) treats management actions as experiments, (3) acknowledges the complexity of these systems and scientific uncertainty. And (4) uses the resulting new knowledge to modify future management methods and policy. Prohibits the definition of such term for the purposes of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974. Requires each Institute to: (1) develop, conduct research on, transfer, promote, and monitor restoration-based hazardous fuel reduction treatments to reduce the risk of severe wildfires and improve the health of dry forest and woodland ecosystems in the interior West. (2) synthesize and adapt scientific findings from conventional research to implement such fuel reduction treatments on a landscape scale using an adaptive ecosystem management framework. (3) translate for and transfer to affected entities any scientific and interdisciplinary knowledge about such fuel reduction treatments. (4) assist affected entities with the design of adaptive management approaches for the implementation of such fuel reduction treatments. And (5) provide peer-reviewed annual reports. Requires each Institute to: (1) develop and demonstrate capabilities in the natural, physical, social, and policy sciences, and explicitly integrate those disciplines in the performance of such duties. And (2) develop an annual work plan for review by the Secretary. Authorizes the Secretary to establish one institute in each of the other interior West States, if after two years, the Secretary finds that the Institute model would be constructive for those States. Provides for cooperation between the Institutes and Federal programs. Encourages cooperation and coordination between Federal programs relating to ecological restoration, wildfire risk reduction, and wildfire management technologies. Requires the Secretary to evaluate and report to specified congressional committees every five years on the programs and activities of each Institute. Authorizes appropriations.
Internet Gambling Prohibition Act of 1997 - Amends the Federal criminal code to provide penalties against any person who, while engaged in the business of betting or wagering, knowingly uses a communication facility for the transmission or receipt in interstate or foreign commerce of bets or wagers, information assisting in the placing of bets or wagers, or a communication that entitles the transmitter or receiver to receive money or credit as a result of bets or wagers. Provides a smaller penalty for those engaging in such activities who are not in the business of betting or wagering. Provides prohibition exceptions. Authorizes the Federal Communications Commission to enforce against interstate computer service providers regulations prohibiting the interstate or foreign transmission of gambling information. Authorizes injunctive relief against such carriers or providers. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Federal Government should have extraterritorial jurisdiction over the transmission to or receipt from the United States of gambling information as well as any communication that entitles the transmitter or recipient to receive money or credit as a result of bets or wagers. Requires a report from the Attorney General to the Congress concerning the enforcement of such gambling regulations and related recommendations.
Small Business Start-up Savings Accounts Act of 2011 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow businesses with 500 or fewer employees to establish small business start-up savings accounts for the payment of certain business expenses, including the purchase of equipment or facilities, marketing, training, incorporation, and accounting fees. Requires all distributions from such accounts for payment of business expenses to be completed within five years after the first account distribution. Allows a tax deduction for contributions to a start-up savings account, limited to the lesser of: (1) $10,000, or (2) $150,000 reduced by the aggregate account contributions for all taxable years. Excludes distributions from such accounts from gross income for income tax purposes. Imposes an excise tax on excess contributions to and for nonqualified distributions from such accounts.
Fairness for America's Servicemen and Women in Higher Education Act of 2003 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to revise title IV student loan and grant assistance repayment provisions with respect to individuals who serve on active duty during a war or national emergency. Exempts students who withdraw from higher education institutions to serve on active duty during a war or national emergency from requirements to repay certain title IV grant assistance. Defers repayments of principal, and directs the Secretary of Education to make interest payments, on specified types of student loans during a war or national emergency when a borrower is: (1) a member of a regular component on active duty, and receives specified compensation. (2) on active duty, regardless of the location at which such active duty service is performed. Or (3) on full-time National Guard duty under a call to active service for a period of more than 30 consecutive days to respond to a national emergency.
Veterans Serving Veterans Act of 2018 This bill amends the VA Choice and Quality Employment Act to name the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recruiting database the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs Recruitment Database and require that it includes for each vacant position: the military occupational specialty or skill corresponding to the VA position, and each qualified US Armed Forces active-duty member who may be recruited to fill the position. The database shall include the following for each qualified member of the Armed Forces: name, contact information, expected discharge date, and military occupational specialty. The VA shall implement direct hiring and appointment procedures for vacant database positions and may authorize relocation bonuses. The VA shall train and certify veterans who served as basic health care technicians in the Armed Forces to work as VA intermediate care technicians.
Purchase Card Waste Elimination Act of 2006 - Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to issue guidelines to assist executive agencies in improving the management of the use of the governmentwide commercial purchase card for making micropurchases. Requires such guidelines to cover an analysis of purchase card expenditures to identify opportunities for achieving and accurately measuring: (1) fair participation of small business concerns in micro-purchases, consistent with the national policy on small business participation in federal procurements set forth in the Small Business Act. And (2) dissemination of best practices for participation of small business concerns in micro-purchases. Requires the Administrator of General Services (GSA) to continue efforts to improve reporting by financial institutions that issue such a card so that GSA has the data needed to: (1) identify opportunities for achieving savings. And (2) actively pursue point-of-sale discounts with major vendors accepting it so that any federal government purchaser using it can benefit from such discounts. Requires the senior procurement executive for each executive agency, as directed by OMB, to report periodically to OMB on the actions taken in the agency pursuant to the guidelines. Requires OMB to report annually to specified congressional committees on the progress made in: (1) improving management of the use of the purchase card. And (2) achieving certain savings in micropurchases made with it. Requires GSA, in conjunction with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Financial Management Service, to develop procedures to subject to the Federal Payment Levy program any purchase card payments to federal contractors. Requires GSA to report annually to specified congressional committees on all first class and business class travel by executive agency employees undertaken at federal expense.
Food Date Labeling Act of 2016 This bill establishes requirements that: (1) address food waste that occurs when people throw out fresh food because of their confusion over the meaning of expiration dates on food labels and whether or not the food is still safe to eat, and (2) standardize quality date and safety date food labels. Producers, manufacturers, distributors, or retailers that place a date label on food packaging of a product must use the phrases quot, best if used byquot, to indicate food quality and the phrase quot, expires onquot. To warn of food that may be unsafe to eat after a specified date. While labelers may voluntarily choose to include a quality date on packaging, they must include a safety date on ready-to-eat products. The Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Agriculture (USDA) must establish guidance for food labelers on how to determine quality dates and safety dates for food products. No one may prohibit the sale, donation, or use of a product after the quality date for the product has passed. USDA and the Department of Health and Human Services must educate consumers on the meaning of quality date and safety date food labels.
Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to provide for information and advice to assist pension plan participants in making decisions regarding the investment of their pension plan assets under defined contribution plans that are individual account plans (IAPs) (401 which hold regularly tradable employment securities and permit participants or beneficiaries to exercise control over assets in the account. Requires the plan administrator to include in the account statement a notice that the account may be overinvested in employer securities and real property, whenever assets consisting of employer securities and real property exceed 50 percent of total IAP assets. Excludes from such notice requirement: (1) assets held through pooled investment vehicles. And (2) employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) that have no contributions subject to section 401 (k) or (m) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). Amends IRC to limit to$1,500 the aggregate amount which may be excluded from gross income with respect to qualified retirement planning services (QRPS) provided to any individual during a taxable year. Prohibits exclusion of any such amount if the modified adjusted gross income of the taxpayer exceeds $100,000 . Provides that no amount shall be included in the gross income of any employee solely because the employee may choose between any QRPS provided by a qualified investment advisor, and compensation which would otherwise be includible in the employee's gross income. Applies such provision to highly compensated employees only if such choice is available on substantially the same terms to each member of the group of employees normally provided education and information regarding the employer's qualified employer plan.
Administrative Simplification Compliance Act - Extends by one year the deadlines for compliance by health care providers, health plans other than small health plans, and health care clearinghouses with the standards for electronic health care transactions and code sets adopted under part C of title XI of the Social Security Act (SSA) by the Secretary of Health and Human Services only if, before the current deadline, such entity submits to the Secretary a plan for compliance with such standards. Directs the Secretary to furnish the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics with a sample of such plans for analysis for reports containing effective solutions to compliance problems identified in the plans. Provides for exclusion from participation in Medicare for noncompliance. Amends SSA title XVIII to require the electronic submission of Medicare claims except in certain circumstances. Amends SSA title XI part C to include the MedicareChoice program as a health plan . Authorizes appropriations.
Entitles employees who are voluntarily separated for the above reasons after completing 25 years of service or after becoming 50 years of age and completing 20 years of service to an annuity under either the Civil Service Retirement System or the Federal Employees' Retirement System. Limits the provision of such pay and annuity benefits to not more than 1000 employees in a calendar year. Terminates such authority five years after the enactment of this Act. Authorizes the Secretary of the Air Force, during the five-year period beginning on the enactment of this Act, to carry out a program of experimental use of special personnel management authority to appoint scientists and engineers from outside the civil service to perform: (1) research and exploratory or advanced development. And (2) acquisition of major weapons systems. Limits the number of such appointments to 62, with 50 appointed for the research and development positions and 12 for the acquisition positions. Limits the appointment term to four years, with an authorized two-year extension when necessary to promote Air Force efficiency. Limits the total amount to be paid to employees for any 12-month period as payments in addition to basic pay . Requires an annual program report from the Secretary to the congressional defense committees during 2001 through 2006. Authorizes the Secretary, during the same period, to carry out a program of experimental hiring for the above positions, using an employee rating system based on relative degrees of merit rather than numerical ratings. Gives priority to candidates with a service- connected disability rating of ten percent or more. Authorizes the Secretary to appoint individuals to fill civilian Air Force positions without competition, provided that public notice has been given and: (1) there is a severe shortage of qualified candidates, (2) there is a need for expediting such hiring, (3) the position is unique and has special qualifications. Or (4) the position has a historically high turnover rate. Authorizes the Secretary to appoint to such positions individuals with exceptional academic qualifications or special experience. Gives priority to applicants who are eligible for the veterans' preference.
Stop Any TARP Extension Act of 2009 - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to: (1) terminate on December 31, 2009 , the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to implement the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). And (2) repeal the Secretary's authority to extend the TARP program through October 3, 2010, upon submission of a written certification to Congress. Revises the requirement that revenues of and proceeds from the sale of troubled assets purchased under TARP, or from the sale, exercise, or surrender of warrants or senior debt instruments acquired under TARP, be paid into the general fund of the Treasury for reduction of the public debt. Establishes the Public Debt Reduction Payment Account. Directs the Secretary to deposit into the Account the following: (1) all remaining EESA funds. (2) amounts received for repayment of financial assistance, as well as payment of interest by a recipient of such assistance under TARP or any related program, including the Capital Purchase Program. And (3) revenues and proceeds from the sale of troubled assets that were purchased under EESA, or from the sale, exercise, or surrender of warrants or senior debt instruments, as under current law. Instructs the Secretary to: (1) use amounts in the Account to pay at maturity any obligation of the government held by the public and included in the public debt. And (2) deposit into the Account specified funds received by the Secretary pursuant to EESA. Lowers the statutory limit on the public debt by the aggregate amounts deposited into the Public Debt Reduction Payment Account. Prohibits the receipts and disbursements of the Account from being counted as new budget authority, outlays, receipts, or deficit or surplus for presidential or congressional budget purposes, and requires their exclusion from any official budget statements.
Randy Barrett Act - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to require the Commissioner of Social Security to waive the five-month waiting period for entitlement to benefits based on disability in the case of any individual who is terminally ill and is not entitled to disability insurance benefits under OASDI for any month solely by reason of such waiting period.
Working Waterfront Preservation Act of 2005 - Amends the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act to authorize the Secretary of Commerce to award a grant to a state or local government of a coastal state, a nonprofit organization, or a fishing cooperative for projects to: (1) acquire real property in a coastal state to provide access to commercial fishermen or persons in the aquaculture industry to coastal waters in working waterfront areas. Or (2) make improvements to real property owned by an eligible entity in a coastal state to provide access to such persons to coastal waters in working waterfront areas.
Strengthening Background Checks Act of 2013 - Amends the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 to require each state, for each fiscal year after a two-year period after this Act's enactment, to have in effect laws and policies that require it to: (1) provide to the Attorney General not less than 90 of the records relevant to a determination of whether a person is disqualified from possessing or receiving a firearm that are required to be provided under such Act for the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. And (2) provide such records to the Attorney General in the same manner, or in a manner substantially similar to, that in which such records are required to be provided by the state under such Act. Directs the Attorney General to withhold 10 of the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant funds that would otherwise be allocated to the state if the state fails to comply with such requirements. Authorizes the Attorney General to waive such withholding for a state: (1) for one year if the state provides substantial evidence that it is making a reasonable effort to comply. And (2) for additional one-year periods if the state provides substantial evidence that it is making a reasonable effort to comply and if the Attorney General withholds 5 of the amount that would otherwise be allocated to a state for each one-year period. Authorizes appropriations for FY2012-FY2015 for grants under such Act to states and Indian tribal governments to establish or upgrade information and identification technologies for firearms eligibility determinations. Appropriates such authorized amount for the first fiscal year beginning after enactment of this Act and cancels a corresponding amount of the unobligated balances available under the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.
Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act This bill amends the federal criminal code to make it a crime to knowingly transport a minor to another state to obtain an abortion without satisfying a parental involvement law in the minor's resident state. A parental involvement law requires parental consent or notification, or judicial authorization, for a minor to obtain an abortion. A violator is subject to criminal penalties8212. A fine, up to one year in prison, or both. The bill provides an exception for an abortion that is necessary to save the life of a minor whose life is endangered by a physical disorder, illness, or condition. This bill prohibits an individual who has committed incest with a minor from knowingly transporting the minor across a state line to receive an abortion. Additionally, this bill makes it a crime for a physician to knowingly perform or induce an abortion on an out-of-state minor without first complying with parental notification requirements, subject to specified exceptions. A physician violator is subject to criminal penalties8212, a fine, up to one year in prison, or both.
Civil Justice Tax Fairness Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow: (1) an exclusion from gross income for amounts received on account of a claim of unlawful discrimination. (2) income averaging for backpay and frontpay amounts received from such claims, and (3)nbsp, an exemption from thenbsp. Alternative minimum tax (AMT) for any tax benefit resulting from the income averaging of amounts received from an unlawful discrimination claim.
Prohibits payment of fees and expenses awarded in such proceedings from appropriated funds of the Treasury's claims and judgements account. Deletes provisions barring taxpayer recovery of costs, fees, or other expenses awarded under the Internal Revenue Code. Specifies that: (1) at any time after the filing of an application for fees and other expenses an agency may offer a settlement of the claims made, (2) an offer not accepted shall be deemed withdrawn. And (3) if any award finally obtained by the applicant is not more favorable than the offer, the applicant shall not be entitled to receive an award for attorney's fees or other expenses incurred in relation to the application for fees and expenses after the date of the offer. Deletes requirements that a court find or a party allege that the position of the agency or of the United States was or was not substantially justified. Requires the Administrative Conference of the United States and the Department of Justice to report to the Congress on fee awards paid by Federal districts and agencies.
Transparency in Judgment Payments Act of 2011 - Requires the Secretary of the Treasury, not later than 30 days after the payment of a final judgment, award, or compromise settlement involving a federal agency, to publish electronically: (1) the agency responsible for the payment. (2) a citation to the law under which the claim was made. (3) the amount to be paid, including any interest and attorney fees. And (4) the court in which such claim was filed and the court case number. Requires each federal agency to submit annual reports to Congress describing: (1) any civil action filed or pending against such agency or an agency employee, and (2) any settlements entered by, or final judgments entered against, such agency or an agency employee.
Consumer Checking Account Fairness Act - Amends the Expedited Funds Availability Act to direct the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to prescribe regulations to: (1) reduce the expedited funds availability time periods to take into account the time within which any receiving institution can reasonably expect to learn of the nonpayment of most items for each category of checks under the Checking Clearing for the 21st Century Act or its implementing regulations. And (2) eliminate distinctions between the time period schedules if the Board finds that they no longer have any significance for any category of checks under such Act or regulations. Extends the next business day availability requirement to funds deposited at a proprietary ATM. Sets a limit upon certain overdraft fees imposed during a check hold period. Requires a depository institution to credit all deposits to a consumer checking account before debiting any check drawn on the account and presented for payment. Requires that Saturday be treated as a business day in the calculation of any period within which funds deposited in an account are required to be made available if the depository institution debits accounts on Saturdays for checks received. Reduces from four business days to two business days the mandatory check hold period on funds deposited by nonlocal checks. Prohibits a depository institution from imposing a fee for paying any check drawn on an account which lacks sufficient funds unless the accountholder has requested check protection service. Amends the Check 21 Act to provide that if a bank that holds the account of a consumer imposes any fee for producing a copy of a substitute check, the expedited recredit process shall be available for all charges initiated by check against the account regardless of whether a substitute check was involved or provided to the consumer.
GI Bill Processing Improvement Act of 2015 Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to alter the information technology system of the Veterans Benefits Administration to ensure that: (1) all claims for post-911 educational assistance are electronically adjudicated, to the maximum extent possible. And (2) rule-based processing is used to decide such claims with little human intervention. Changes from July 1, 2015, to July 1, 2016, the effective date of the requirement that the Secretary disapprove, for purposes of the All-Volunteer Force and the Post-911 Educational Assistance programs, courses of education provided by a public educational institution of higher education that charges veterans living in the state higher tuition and fees than it charges in-state residents, regardless of the veterans' state of residence. Allows individuals to elect to convert their educational assistance to the post-911 veterans' educational assistance program if, as of August 1, 2009, they meet specified conditions with respect to their entitlements and elections under the all-volunteer force educational assistance program or certain other educational programs for professional military, selected reserve, or reserve component members. Conditions such post-911 program eligibility on the individual meeting the requirements for the post-911 program as of the date of election. Sets forth transitional rules with respect to the transfer or revocation of entitlements from a previous assistance program after an election to convert to the post-911 program. Requires certain assistance to remain available to individuals under their previous program if it is not available under the post-911 program. Authorizes the Secretary, if an individual submits an election that the Secretary determines is against the interests of the individual, to make an alternative election on the individual's behalf. Allows such individual, during a specified period, to modify or revoke the Secretary's alternative selection. Requires individuals and educational institutions participating in the post-Vietnam era and post-911 veterans' educational assistance programs, in addition to those participating in the VA's other educational assistance programs, to report to the Secretary such enrollment and any updates on interruption or termination of the education . Defines quot, educational institutionquot. To permit the inclusion of groups, districts, or consortiums of separately accredited educational institutions in the same state that are organized in a manner facilitating the centralized reporting of enrollments. Directs the Secretary to make available to educational institutions, through an Internet website, information on the amount of educational assistance to which their students are entitled under the all-volunteer force, post-Vietnam era, post-911, and survivors' and dependents' educational assistance programs.
Strengthening American Transportation Security Act of 2016 This bill expresses the sense of Congress that the personnel system used by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) provides insufficient workplace protections for its workforce and such personnel should be entitled to protections under the civil service system applicable to all federal employees. The bill repeals personnel authorities of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Transportation governing the conditions of employment for TSA employees, thus making TSA employees subject to the personnel management system applicable to all other federal employees. Within 60 days after the enactment of this bill or an earlier date set by DHS: (1) all TSA personnel management policies, directives, letters, and guidelines and any DHS human resources management system shall cease to be effective with respect to TSA employees. And (2) TSA employees shall become subject to labor provisions applicable to other federal transportation employees. The bill sets forth transition rules that protect the pay rates and other rights of TSA employees. DHS shall consult with the labor organization certified by the Federal Labor Relations Authority to carry out the conversion of TSA employees and positions to the civil service system. The provisions of this bill do not affect the prohibitions against disloyalty and asserting the right to strike against the federal government.
Home Ownership Vesting Plan Act of 2009 - Amends the National Housing Act to direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to: (1) insure any mortgage covering a one- to four-family principal and sole residence that is made for the purpose of paying or prepaying outstanding obligations (refinancing) under an existing mortgage or mortgages meeting specified requirements. (2) pay $1,000 to the servicer of the existing senior mortgage refinanced by each mortgage insured under this Act. And (3) make a nonamortizing no-interest loan to the mortgagor, the proceeds of which shall be paid by the Secretary directly to the holder of the existing senior mortgage being refinanced. Sets forth a schedule for repayment of principal only if the borrower defaults. Shields a servicer from liability for entering into a loan modification or workout plan with respect to any such mortgage if the servicer acts consistent with the fiduciary duty of servicers of pooled residential mortgages under the Truth in Lending Act.
Antiboycott Act - States that: (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel and the secondary boycott of US firms that have commercial ties with Israel are an impediment to economic development and peace in the Middle East and North Africa. And (2) the President, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Commerce should seek an end to the Arab League boycott of Israel. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to issue regulations prohibiting, with specified exceptions, any US person from taking specified actions that support any boycott imposed by a foreign country against a country that is friendly to the United States and is not itself the object of any form of boycott pursuant to United States law or regulation. Sets forth criminal and civil penalties for violations of such regulations.
Directs the Architect of the Capitol to assign at least 12 full-time employees to the Director.
National Defense Science and Technology Investment Act of 1998 - States that, for each year from FY 2000 until 2008, it shall be an objective of the Secretary of: (1) Defense to increase the Defense Science and Technology Program (DSTP) budget by not less than two percent over inflation over the year before. And (2) Energy to increase the budget for nonproliferation science and technology activities by not less than two percent over inflation over the year before. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to expend funds from Department of Defense (DOD) 6.1, 6.2, or 6.3 accounts in supporting any individual DSTP project or program. Directs the Secretary to attempt to leverage commercial research, technology, products, and processes for the benefit of DOD. Allows funds made available to the DSTP to be used only to benefit DOD. Includes as key DSTP objectives: (1) the sustainment of research capabilities in scientific and engineering disciplines critical to DOD. (2) the education and training of the next generation of scientists and engineers in disciplines relevant to future defense systems. And (3) the continued support of the Defense Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research and research programs at historically black colleges and universities and minority institutions.
Veterans' Burial Benefits Enhancement Act of 2003 - Revises eligibility requirements concerning the veterans' burial plot allowance paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to a State cemetery. Authorizes the Secretary to lease any unutilized or underutilized land or facilities of the United States that are part of the National Cemetery Administration (Administration) for up to three years. Requires: (1) the lessee to maintain, protect, or restore such land or facilities. And (2) lease proceeds to be deposited into the Administration account. Directs the Secretary to establish a national cemetery in each geographic area in which more than 170,000 veterans reside more than 50 miles from an open (unfilled) national or State veterans' cemetery. Allows the Secretary to expand a current (filled) national cemetery in such an area in lieu of such requirement.
New Jersey Marine Ecosystem Protection Act of 1996 - Prohibits the transport of dredged material for the purpose of dumping it into ocean waters at the New York Bight Dredged Material Disposal Site , other than for remediation pursuant to this Act, on and after September 1, 1997. Prohibits, after the date of this Act's enactment, the transport of: (1) dredged material for such purpose, other than Category I or II dredged material. And (2) Category II dredged material for such purpose unless the applicant for a transport permit has certified, and the Secretary of the Army has published a finding, that the affected States or ports were requested to provide alternate disposal sites and failed to provide a reasonable alternative site, and that dumping at the Mud Dump Site will not increase the elevation of the ocean bottom at such Site beyond a certain point. Directs: (1) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop a remediation and restoration plan in accordance with applicable laws and regulations for the Mud Dump Site and surrounding areas and to designate such Site and areas that have been used for disposal of contaminated material as the Historic Area Remediation Site. And (2) the Secretary and Administrator to modify environmental assessment activities at the Mud Dump Site as appropriate to reflect the provisions of this Act. Prohibits the transport of dredged material for the purpose of dumping it into ocean waters in the New York Bight Apex outside the Historic Area Remediation Site, or into waters of the New York-New Jersey Harbor on and after September 1, 1997. Prohibits the Administrator from designating any new site for ocean dumping of dredged material within the Apex, and the Secretary from issuing any permit for transportation of dredged material for the purpose of dumping it in the Apex, except in accordance with this Act. Prescribes penalties for violations of this Act. Directs the Secretary to establish, operate, and maintain a confined dredged material disposal facility or facilities within the confines of the Port of New York and New Jersey. Authorizes appropriations.
Home Energy Conservation Act of 2010 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the issuance of tax-exempt home energy conservation bonds to finance qualified residential energy efficiency assistance grants and loans and extend such grants and loans to low and very-low income taxpayers. Imposes a national home energy conservation bond limitation amount of $2.4 billion and allocates such amount to states in proportion to state population. Defines qualified residential energy efficiency assistance grants and loans as any grant or loan to acquire: (1) any property which meets the requirements of the Energy Star program or the Water Sense program and which is to be installed in a dwelling unit. And (2) any improvement to a dwelling unit made under a plan which is developed by a Residential Energy Services Network, Building Performance Institute, or equivalent energy efficiency expert and is certified by such expert as resulting in at least a 20 reduction in total household energy consumption related to heating, cooling, lighting, and appliances. Imposes dollar limitations on such grants and loans and excludes certain types of property from such grant and loan program, including equipment used in connection with a swimming pool or hot tub, any television, any device for converting a digital signal to analog, any DVD player, video cassette recorder, audio equipment, cordless phone, or other property where there is a substantial recreational use.
Nonprofit Energy Efficiency Act - Directs the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to establish a pilot program to award grants to nonprofit organizations for the purpose of retrofitting buildings owned by such organizations with energy-efficiency improvements. Directs the Secretary, in determining whether to award a grant, to apply performance-based criteria, which shall give priority to applications based on: (1) the cost-effectiveness of the energy-efficiency improvement. And (2) an effective plan for evaluation, measurement, and verification of energy savings. Limits each grant award to: (1) an amount equal to 50 of the energy-efficiency improvement, and (2) $200,000. Authorizes appropriations for such grants for FY2013-FY2016 and makes offsetting reductions in authorizations for energy sustainability and efficiency grants under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act.
Great Lakes Navigation System Sustainability Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to manage and allocate funding for all commercial and recreational navigation projects in the Great Lakes Navigation System as components of a single system, recognizing the interdependence of the projects. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to: (1) establish a program to fund eligible operations and maintenenace projects of the System to their authorized depths and widths, and (2) give higher priority to projects at certain harbors in which a 50 non-federal share of costs of eligible operations and maintenance expenses is provided.
Authorized Rural Water Projects Completion Act - Establishes in the Treasury a Reclamation Rural Water Construction Fund, into which the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit for each of FY2013-FY2029 a specified amount of revenues that would otherwise be deposited in the reclamation fund established by the Reclamation Act of 1902. Authorizes the Secretary to use amounts from the Fund to complete construction of rural water projects: (1) that were authorized to be carried out on or before this Act's enactment, or (2) for which the Secretary completed a feasibility report by September 30, 2012, that recommends construction and for which an Act of Congress enacted after this Act's enactment has authorized construction. Prohibits the Secretary from using amounts from the Fund to pay for project operation and maintenance costs. Prohibits the Secretary from expending amounts from the Fund until the date on which the Secretary develops: (1) programmatic goals that would enable the completion of construction of the authorized rural water projects as expeditiously as possible and that reflect the goals and priorities identified in the laws authorizing the projects and the goals of the Reclamation Rural Water Supply Act. And (2) funding prioritization criteria that takes into account specified information, including an evaluation of the need for potable water supplies in the affected rural and tribal communities, the completion status of a project, and the financial needs of the affected communities. Terminates the Fund on September 30, 2034.
Amends Medicare part A to provide for coverage of intensive residential services. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to study and report to Congress on whether the criteria for Medicare coverage of any therapy service or any outpatient mental health care service unduly restricts the access to such a service of any Medicare beneficiary diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease or a related mental illness because the coverage criteria requires the beneficiary to display continuing clinical improvement to continue to receive the service. Amends Medicare to: (1) cover mental health counselor services. And (2) exclude clinical social worker services from coverage under the Medicare skilled nursing facility prospective payment system.
Filipino Veterans Fairness Act - Makes former members of the Philippine Commonwealth Army or new Philippine Scouts who served with US Armed Forces during World War II and became US citizens or lawfully resided in the United States eligible for: (1) payment of compensation for service-connected disability. (2) vocational rehabilitation as well as job counseling, training, and placement. And (3) veterans' housing loans made or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish outpatient health care at the Manila Outpatient Clinic in the Republic of the Philippines for such veterans residing in the Philippines. Makes spouses of such veterans eligible for veterans' educational assistance. Makes the rate of assistance for such spouses and children residing in the United States equal to the rate for the dependents of US veterans. Makes such spouses and dependents eligible for job counseling, training, and placement benefits. Requires the Secretary to ensure that at least one member of the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans is a Commonwealth Army veteran or new Philippine Scout.
Stop Tobacco Sales to Youth Act of 2015 Amends the Jenkins Act to include within the definition of quot, cigarettequot, electronic cigarettes, cigars, and pipe tobacco. Defines quot, electronic cigarettequot. To mean any electronic device that delivers nicotine, flavor, or other substance via an aerosolized solution to the user inhaling from the device, excluding any product that: (1) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product or for another therapeutic purpose, and (2) is marketed and sold solely for such a therapeutic purpose. Makes specified exceptions with respect to Indian tribes and tribal matters.
Safe Building Code Incentive Act of 2012 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to authorize the President to increase the maximum total of contributions for a major disaster by an amount equal to 4 of the estimated aggregate amount of grants to be made under the Act if, at the time of a declaration of a major disaster, the affected state certifies that it has in effect and is actively enforcing a state building code that: (1) is consistent with the most recent version of a nationally recognized model building code, (2) has been adopted by the state within six years of the most recent version of the nationally recognized code, and (3) uses the nationally recognized code as a minimum standard. Directs the President to approve the additional assistance upon determining that such certification is sufficient and is submitted not later than 90 days after the date of a declared disaster. Requires the President, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to set appropriate standards for the periodic update, resubmittal, and approval of state building codes, consistent with similar mitigation planning requirements under the Stafford Act. Makes this Act applicable to major disasters declared on or after October 24, 2012. Allows 90 days from this Act's enactment for submission of the required certification for disasters declared between October 24, 2012, and such enactment.
Family Farmer Bankruptcy Clarification Act of 2017 This bill amends the federal bankruptcy code to include an unsecured claim by a governmental unit resulting from the sale, transfer, exchange, or disposition of farming property in chapter 12 bankruptcy proceedings. Such a claim that arises before a debtor's discharge, regardless of whether the claim is pre-petition or post-petition, must be treated as a pre-petition claim, is not entitled to priority status, must be provided for under the bankruptcy plan, and is dischargeable.
Government Reform Act of 2003 - Establishes a Government Reform Commission to: (1) examine the current configuration of executive agencies and investigate their duties and responsibilities. (2) review agency operational jurisdictions to determine whether areas of overlap exist and whether the mission of any agency has become obsolete. (3) review and report to the President and Congress on existing Government Accounting Office, Congressional Budget Office, and Inspector General reports, together with any other existing governmental and nongovernmental recommendations, including those offered by the President's Private Sector Survey on Cost Control, for reducing waste in executive agencies. (4) submit to the President and Congress a proposed reorganization plan which shall provide for the realignment or closure of executive agencies to reduce duplication of services and increase productivity. And (5) transmit a copy of the plan to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall issue a public report detailing the predicted savings in Federal expenditures that would result from implementing such plan. Sets forth separate provisions for presidential and congressional consideration of and actions on the proposed reorganization plan.
Underage Drinking Prevention Act of 2007 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) understanding which programs are effective in reducing underage drinking will maximize scarce federal resources and help confront underage drinking in a more effective, cost-efficient manner. (2) the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration should explore ways to expand and improve evaluation efforts. And (3) federal agencies should strive to evaluate all federally funded underage drinking programs and modify programs as needed to reach maximum effectiveness. Requires the Director of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Programs to award grants to states and local governments to implement and evaluate enforcement and public education programs aimed at reducing the provision of alcohol by social sources to underage drinkers as part of the Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Program. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as Chair of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on the Prevention of Underage Drinking, to: (1) work with members of that Committee to improve federal data collection by ensuring that federally funded surveys related to underage drinking collect and report data in a consistent manner. And (2) establish a federal data improvement committee. Requires the Secretary of Education to: (1) award grants on a competitive basis to local educational agencies to develop and implement innovative and effective programs to increase parental awareness and involvement in reducing underage drinking in elementary and secondary schools. And (2) identify existing, effective, national programs that increase parent-child interaction to prevent underage drinking and disseminate that information to such agencies for replication at the local level.
Criminal Antitrust Anti-Retaliation Act - Prohibits discharging or in any other manner discriminating against a whistleblower in terms and conditions of employment because: (1) the whistleblower provided information to the employer or the federal government concerning a violation of antitrust law or another criminal law committed in conjunction with a potential violation of antitrust law. Or (2) the whistleblower participated in, or otherwise assisted, an investigation relating to such a violation. Allows a whistleblower who alleges discharge or other discrimination to seek relief: (1) by filing a complaint with the Secretary of Labor. Or (2) if the Secretary has not issued a final decision within 180 days of filing such complaint, to bring an action at law or equity. Entitles a whistleblower who prevails in any such action to all relief necessary to make such whistleblower whole.
New War on Cancer Act - Allows the sponsor of a drug intended for use for cancer to request the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) provide written recommendations for investigations which must be conducted before approval of a drug or before licensure of a biological product for use for cancer. And (2) designate such drug as a cancer drug before the submission of a request for approval or licensing. Requires the Secretary to designate such drug as a cancer drug if the drug is being or will be investigated for use for cancer. Prohibits the Secretary from approving another application or issuing another license for a designated cancer drug for a person who is not the holder of the approved application or license until the expiration of seven years, with certain exceptions. Requires the Secretary to encourage the sponsor of a designated cancer drug approved for investigational use to design protocols for the drug that include persons with the cancer involved who cannot be satisfactorily treated by alternative drugs. Extends the time during which an application for approval of drug with the same active ingredient as an approved cancer drug may not be approved. Excludes approved cancer drugs from time limits imposed on the maximum length of a patent.
Improved Consumer Access to Travel Information Act - Establishes the National Commission to Ensure Consumer Information and Choice in the Airline Industry. Sets forth the Commission's duties, including to: (1) study consumer access to airline industry information on products and services, the effect on consumers of the declining financial condition of travel agents in the United States, and the impediments imposed by the airline industry on distributors of the industry's products and services, including travel agents and Internet-based distributors. And (2) recommend, based on the study results, to the President and Congress policies necessary to ensure full consumer access to complete information concerning airline fares, routes, and other services, that the means of distributing the products and services of the airline industry is adequate to ensure that competitive information is available in the marketplace, and that distributors of such products and services have adequate relief from illegal, anticompetitive practices that occur in the marketplace. Requires the Commission to report to the President and Congress on the Commission's activities, including any recommendations made by it.
Oil Subsidy Elimination for New Strategies on Energy Act or the Oil SENSE Act - Repeals provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 relating to: (1) incentives for production from marginal oil wells. (2) incentives for natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico, (3) royalty relief for deep water production, (4) Alaska offshore royalty suspension. (5) the inventory of Outer Continental Shelf oil and natural gas resources, (6) management of federal oil and gas leasing programs. And (7) ultra-deepwater and unconventional natural gas and other petroleum resources. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) suspend royalty relief for producers of oil or natural gas on federal lands during periods in which oil and natural gas production is at certain levels. And (2) renegotiate certain existing leases for oil and natural gas production on federal land. Repeals provisions of the Internal Revenue Code relating to: (1) the election to expense certain costs associated with liquid fuel refineries. (2) accelerated depreciation of natural gas distribution lines and natural gas gathering lines. And (3) accelerated amortization of geological and geophysical expenditures. Reduces the daily barrel production requirement applicable to small refiners eligible for the exemption from limitations on the oil and gas depletion allowance.
Amends NSLA to provide a limited waiver of a confidentiality requirement, for persons directly connected with the administration of a State plan for Medicaid or SCHIP, for the purpose of identifying children eligible for benefits under, and enrolling children in, any such plan. Makes such waiver applicable with respect to the agency from which the information would be obtained only if the State and the agency so elect. Amends CNA provisions for the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children to direct the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a demonstration project, in not more than 40 local agencies in not fewer than two States, under which costs of nutrition services and administration shall include the costs of identification of children eligible for benefits under, and enrollment of children in, State plans for Medicaid and SCHIP. Directs the Comptroller General to evaluate for Congress the costs associated with implementing such project, including Federal and State costs per child enrolled in such State plans. (Section 3(sic)) Amends NSLA to direct the Secretary to make grants to States to carry out State plans to involve eligible entities in the identification of children eligible for benefits under, and enrollment of children in, State plans for Medicaid and SCHIP. Provides that the following are eligible entities: (1) a school or school food authority participating in the school lunch program under NSLA. (2) an institution participating in the child and adult care food program under NSLA. (3) a local agency participating in the WIC program under CNA. Or (4) any other nongovernmental social service provider. Includes the WIC demonstration project established under this Act among authorized uses of such grant funds. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to provide a specified amount of funds to the Secretary for each of FY 2000 through 2003. Entitles and directs the Secretary to accept such funds, without further Act of appropriation.
Drug Trafficking Vessel Interdiction Act of 2008 - Title I: Criminal Prohibition - Amends the federal criminal code to impose a fine andor prison term of up to 15 years for knowingly operating, attempting or conspiring to operate, or embarking in any submersible or semi-submersible vessel that is without nationality in, through, or from waters beyond the outer limit of the territorial sea of a single country or a lateral limit of that country's territorial sea with an adjacent country, with the intent to avoid detection. Grants extraterritorial federal jurisdiction over an offense under this Act. Specifies that a claim of nationality or registry under this Act includes only: (1) possession on board the vessel and production of documents evidencing the vessel's nationality as provided in the 1958 Convention on the High Seas, (2) flying its nation's ensign or flag. Or (3) a verbal claim of nationality or registry by the person in charge of the vessel. Makes it an affirmative defense to a prosecution under this Act that a vessel operated at the time of a violation was: (1) a vessel of the Untied States or lawfully registered in a foreign nation. (2) classed by and designated in accordance with the rules of a classification society, (3) lawfully operated in a government regulated or licensed activity. Or (4) equipped with and using an operable automatic identification system, vessel monitoring system, or a long range identification and tracking system. Specifies the documents required to conclusively prove an affirmative defense. Directs the US Sentencing Commission to promulgate or amend sentencing guidelines to provide adequate penalties for violating the criminal prohibition imposed by this Act. Title II: Civil Prohibition - Imposes a civil penalty of up to $1 million for a violation of this Act. Allows the same defenses to a civil enforcement proceeding as for a criminal prosecution under this Act. Defines a semi-submersible vessel as any manned or unmanned watercraft constructed or adapted to operate with most of its hull and bulk under the surface of the water. Defines a submersible vessel as a manned or unmanned vessel capable of operating completely below the surface of the water.
Franked Mail Savings Act - Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 to establish an Official Mass Mailing Allowance for Members of the House of Representatives. Requires the Official Mass Mailing Allowance to be: (1) available only for postage for any mass mailing sent by a Member as franked mail, (2) the sole source of funding for any such postage. And (3) available in a session of Congress in an amount that does not exceed the total amount allocated to the Official Mail Allowance of a Member in such session. Treats the Official Mass Mailing Allowance and mass mailings separately from the Official Mail Allowance. Continues the applicability of current provisions of law relating to mass mailings sent by a Member or Member-elect subject to certain conditions. Sets forth requirements for the submission of samples of mass mailings to the House Commission on Congressional Mailing Standards. Revises the formula for determining the Official Mail Allowance . Prohibits the transfer of any amount to or from the Official Mail Allowance of a Member.
Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Act of 2006 - Authorizes the Secretary of State to establish an Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Program to facilitate undergraduate study abroad for academic credit. States that the Program shall consist of: (1) undergraduate fellowships, and (2) grants to institutions of higher education .
Launch Services Corporation Act of 1994 - Authorizes the creation of a non-Federal, for profit Launch Services Corporation to provide space launch services to the Federal Government and other domestic and foreign customers. Ends Federal funding for the Corporation after the year 2000.
Homeless Veterans Prevention Act of 2015 Increases the per diem payment for transitional housing assistance for homeless veterans who are placed in housing that will become permanent upon the termination of such assistance to a maximum of 150 of the per diem rate authorized for veterans receiving domiciliary care in state homes. Allows services for which a homeless veteran receives a grant under the comprehensive service programs to include furnishing care for a dependent. Authorizes the the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to enter into partnerships with public or private entities to provide legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk of homelessness. Revises VA authority to provide dental care to veterans receiving certain other assistance through the VA to include those veterans receiving assistance under the United States Housing Act of 1937. Repeals the September 30, 2013, sunset on the authority of the VA and the Department of Labor to carry out a program of referral and counseling for veterans who are at risk of homelessness and are transitioning from certain institutions, including penal institutions. Extends supportive services assistance for very low-income veteran families in permanent housing. Directs the VA to: (1) assess and measure the capacity of programs for which entities receive grants or per diem payments to assist homeless veterans, and (2) use such information to ensure that such programs effectively serve the needs of such veterans. Requires a VA report on activities under such programs. Requires a Comptroller General study of VA assistance to homeless veterans. Repeals the requirement for annual VA reports on assistance to homeless veterans.
Lupus Research Amendments of 1994 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases to conduct lupus research and related activities. Requires the Director to: (1) coordinate such activities with similar activities conducted by other national research institutes and agencies of the National Institutes of Health. And (2) conduct or support research to expand the understanding of the causes of, and to find a cure for, lupus, including research to determine the reasons underlying the elevated prevalence of the disease among African-American and other women.
Right of Passage Community Service Act - Amends the National and Community Service Act of 1990 to add to the list of national service programs eligible for Federal assistance a community-based Right of Passage after school and summer service corps program. Establishes qualifications for participating students, including that they be between ages 12 and 16 at the time they begin serving. Specifies skills such as leadership and conflict resolution that the program will help students develop. Requires participants to spend at least 160 hours in the program during a period of between two months and one year. Rewards participants upon service completion with a national service education award of $500.
Prohibits the inclusion of certain small debts in a consumer report under specified circumstances. Directs the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Trade Commission to: (1) monitor and review the extent to which consumer reporting agencies and purveyors of information to such agencies comply with FCRA requirements for the prompt investigation of matters in dispute and the prompt correction of inaccurate or incomplete information, or information that cannot be verified, and (2) present a progress report to Congress.
Authorizes the Attorney General to provide State grants to educate persons respecting the requirements of this Act. Provides for confidentiality of information provided under this Act, and fines for knowing violation of such confidentiality.
Professional Sports Antitrust Clarification Act of 1996 - Permits a professional sports league or its member franchises to establish and enforce rules and procedures for deciding whether a member franchise may change its home territory, notwithstanding the antitrust laws. Specifies requirements for antitrust protection, including that the league promote comparable economic opportunities by sharing revenue among member franchises to account for disparities in revenue or savings due to public benefits and subsidies. Requires such franchise relocation rules and procedures to provide for consideration of various factors to protect the public interest, including: (1) fan support, (2) the extent of public financial support received, (3) the effect on existing contracts, (4) the extent of any net operating losses. And (5) any bona fide offer to purchase the franchise and keep it in its home territory. Provides for judicial review in actions challenging establishment or enforcement of such rules and procedures.
Federal Facility Accountability Act of 2013 - Amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) to apply all guidelines, rules, regulations, and criteria applicable to response actions to address hazardous substances at facilities to those currently or formerly owned or operated by the United States. Requires federal facilities to comply with state substantive and procedural requirements regarding response relating to hazardous substances or pollutants or contaminants, including state hazardous waste requirements, in the same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity. Waives sovereign immunity with respect to state substantive or procedural requirements. Prohibits an agent, employee, or officer of the United States from being: (1) immune or exempt from injunctive relief with respect to such state requirements, and (2) personally liable for any civil penalty under such requirements or CERCLA with respect to any act or omission within the scope of their official duties. Provides that state substantive and procedural requirements include administrative orders, injunctive relief, civil and administrative penalties and fines, reasonable service charges or oversight costs, and laws or regulations requiring the imposition and maintenance of engineering or land use controls. Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review as determined necessary, or upon state request, actions taken or regulations promulgated pursuant to any duties or powers delegated or assigned by the President to a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States other than EPA to ensure consistency with the guidelines, rules, regulations, or criteria established by the Administrator.
Chimney Rock National Monument Establishment Act - Designates the Chimney Rock National Monument in Colorado to preserve, protect, and restore the cultural, historic, natural, educational, and scenic resources of Chimney Rock and adjacent land and to provide for public interpretation and recreation consistent with the protection of such resources. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to make minor adjustments to the boundaries of the Monument to reflect the inclusion of significant archaeological resources discovered on adjacent National Forest System land. Permits only such uses of the Monument that would further the purposes specified above. Allows for continued use of the Monument by Indian tribes for traditional ceremonies and as a source of traditional plants and other materials. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out vegetation management treatments within the Monument, with the exception of timber harvesting which shall only be used when necessary for ecosystem restoration or the control of fire, insects, or diseases. Authorizes the construction of an education and interpretive center to interpret the Monument's scientific and cultural resources for the public. Requires the Secretary to develop a management plan for the Monument.
Buy America Update Act This bill exempts from Buy America requirements the procurement of railroad rolling stock when: the cost of components and subcomponents produced in the United States is more than 60 of the cost of all components of the rolling stock. And final assembly of such rolling stock has occurred in the United States. The Department of Transportation (DOT) shall initiate a rulemaking to develop audit procedures for an agency to review rolling stock offeror and recipient compliance with domestic content requirements, and issue guidance on best practices for pre-award and post-delivery audits by recipients. Before seeking a Buy America waiver request, Amtrak shall contract with the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to conduct a supplier scouting process for domestic suppliers that can provide the compliant products for which a waiver will be sought. DOT must consider Amtrak's scouting report before deciding on the request. Before issuing the Federal Aviation Administration a waiver of Buy America requirements, DOT shall consult with the NIST and begin a supplier scouting process for domestic suppliers that can provide for compliant aviation products for which a waiver will be sought. DOT may approve an airport improvement project financed with passenger facility charges only if steel and manufactured goods used in the project are produced in the United States.
Authorizes the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to establish and operate the following five schools for the provision by the National Guard of training in drug interdiction, counter-drug activities, and drug demand reduction activities to personnel of Federal agencies, State and local law enforcement agencies, and community-based organizations and other non-Federal governmental and private entities and organizations engaged in such activities: (1) the National Interagency Civil-Military Institute, San Luis Obispo, California, (2) the Multi-Jurisdictional Counterdrug Task Force Training, St. Petersburg, Florida. (3) the Midwest Counterdrug Training Center to be established in Johnston, Iowa, (4) the Regional Counterdrug Training Academy, Meridian, Mississippi. And (5) the Northeast Regional Counterdrug Training Center, Fort Gap, Pennsylvania.
Amends the Internal Revenue to increase the expensing allowance for the cost of Gulf Opportunity Zone property placed in service in the Hurricane Katrina disaster area.
Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to change the eligibility standard for assistance under the emergency preparedness demonstration program established by such Act from minority communities to disadvantaged communities. Defines disadvantaged communities as a communities predominantly populated by socially or economically disadvantaged individuals who have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias because of their identity as a member of a group without regard to their individual qualities, and whose ability to compete in the free enterprise system has been impaired due to diminished capital and credit opportunities.
Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for development and implementation of programs to provide education and training to health care professionals in pain management and palliative care. Defines pain management and palliative care as certain types of actions, the purpose of which is to diagnose and alleviate pain and other distressing signs and symptoms and to enhance the quality of life, not to hasten or postpone death. Adds the provisions of this paragraph to the list of provisions for which the Secretary is required to make a specified amount available and increases the amount specified. Title II: Use of Controlled Substances Consistent With the Controlled Substances Act - Amends the Controlled Substances Act to declare that, for that Act and any implementing regulations, alleviating pain or discomfort in the usual course of professional practice is a legitimate medical purpose for the dispensing, distributing, or administering of a controlled substance that is consistent with public health and safety, even if it may increase the risk of death. Prohibits the Attorney General, in determining whether a registration is consistent with the public interest, from giving any force and effect to State law authorizing or permitting assisted suicide or euthanasia, notwithstanding any other provision of the Act, and with regard to conduct after enactment of this Act. Gives the Attorney General, in an action to deny, revoke, or suspend a registration based on alleged intentions to cause or assist in causing death, the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the intent was to cause death or assist another person in causing death. Declares that the burden is not met by proving that the applicant or registrant knew that the use of the controlled substance may increase the risk of death. Authorizes the Attorney General to carry out education and training programs for Federal, State, and local personnel on the means by which investigation and enforcement actions by law enforcement personnel may better accommodate the necessary and legitimate use of controlled substances in pain management and palliative care. Requires, notwithstanding any other provision of law, construing the operation of the diversion control fee account program of the Drug Enforcement Administration to include carrying out the provisions of this title .
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an annual residential energy credit of up to $2,000 for qualifying conservation expenditures. Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish the Elementary and Secondary School Energy Efficiency and Conservation Program to provide grants to local educational agencies to retrofit schools for increased energy conservation. Requires electric utility company billing statements to provide peak and nonpeak hour energy use and rate information.
Knife Owners' Protection Act of 2017 This bill permits an individual to transport a knife between two places where knife possession, carry, or transport is legal. A knife must be securely stored during transport, unless it is an emergency knife designed to cut seat belts. This bill prohibits the arrest or detention of an individual for a knife violation unless there is probable cause to believe the individual failed to securely store the knife during transport. An individual may assert compliance with this bill as a claim or defense in any civil or criminal proceeding. This bill repeals provisions, commonly known as the Federal Switchblade Act, that prohibit the introduction of switchblade knives into interstate commerce. It also repeals the Ballistic Knife Prohibition Act of 1986, which prohibits the possession, manufacture, sale, or importation of a ballistic knife. Finally, it amends the federal criminal code to eliminate two provisions8212. One that restricts the mailability of switchblade knives, and one that restricts the mailability of ballistic knives.
National Center for Social Work Research Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish the National Center for Social Work Research.
Consortium on the Impact of Technology in Aging Health Services Act of 2006 - Establishes the Consortium on the Impact of Technology in Aging Health Services. Requires the Consortium to conduct a study of all matters relating to the potential use of new technology to assist older adults and their caregivers, including: (1) methods for identifying technology that may be adapted to meet their needs. (2) methods for fostering scientific innovation in aging services technology within the business and academic communities. (3) barriers to innovation in and the adoption of technology and strategies for removing such barriers, (4) developments in such technology in other countries. And (5) methods for ensuring that US businesses have a leadership role in the global market of such technology. Requires the Consortium to develop recommendations concerning: (1) developments in current technologies that may result in increased efficiency and cost savings to the healthcare system. (2) opportunities for research and development to accelerate the development and adoption of aging services technology. (3) methods to ensure that technology infrastructure is in place to deliver services. And (4) establishment of a federal interagency task force to facilitate the development and distribution of such technology and a National Resource Center to stimulate research, oversee demonstration projects, and provide training and assistance to entities that provide such services. Requires the Consortium to report recommendations regarding development of a national policy to address issues concerning technology and assistive health services for seniors, changes to federal laws and programs that would support and encourage the private sector to develop and make widely available consumer-empowered technology solutions, and establishment of a National Resource Center on Aging Services Technologies.
Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to revise the temporary agricultural worker program with respect to: (1) H-2A petition considerations and approvals, (2) labor certification denial, (3) reduction in deadline filing, (4) expedited appeal of certain decisions, and (5) limitations on employer liability and judicial remedies.
Federal Employee Rights Act This bill repeals current authority allowing the deduction of labor organization dues from employee pay and prohibits federal agencies, including executive, legislative, and judicial agencies, the US Postal Service, the Postal Regulatory Commission, and the government of the District of Columbia, from deducting any amount from the pay of an employee for the dues of a labor organization. The bill prohibits employee dues collected by a labor organization from being used for any purpose not directly related to the organization's collective bargaining activities without employee authorization. The bill requires a vote of more than 50 of all employees to approve union representation and extends this requirement to postal service employees. An employee may elect, in writing, to withhold personal information from a labor organization during organizing activity. The bill requires that all elections relating to labor representation, including elections involving postal service employees, have secret paper ballots.
National Icebreaker Fund Act of 2015 This bill establishes the National Icebreaker Fund, which shall be available for obligation and expenditure only for construction, alteration, renovation, and the lease or charter of icebreakers for the Coast Guard. There shall be deposited into the Fund: (1) all funds appropriated to any federal agency for construction, alteration, renovation, or the lease or charter of icebreakers. And (2) all receipts from the disposition of icebreakers by the federal government. Amounts in the Fund may not be used to: (1) lease, charter, construct, alter, renovate, or otherwise acquire any vessel built in a shipyard located in a foreign country, unless specifically authorized by law. Or (2) construct, alter, or renovate a vessel in any shipyard other than a US shipyard. Amounts in the Fund may be expended for: (1) the lease, charter, construction, alteration, or renovation of icebreakers capable of search and rescue, saving of life at sea, maritime safety and security, drug and migrant interdiction, fisheries law enforcement, and environmental response in the Arctic. And (2) additional capabilities that are necessary to carry out national defense missions or for missions related to research and resupply in the Antarctic. The Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall enter into an agreement with nations that operate facilities in Antarctica to establish a mechanism to provide icebreaking services necessary to supply those facilities by constructing, leasing or chartering, renovating, operating, or maintaining an icebreaker.
Iran Policy Oversight Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of State, the Department of Defense, the Department of the Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence to submit to Congress every two years a joint 10-year strategy to counter Iranian activities in the Middle East, North Africa, and beyond. The President is authorized to: take appropriate measures to enhance Israel's qualitative military edge, deter Iranian conventional and nuclear threats, and counter non-peaceful Iranian nuclear activities. Provide any additional foreign military financing to Israel in FY2018-FY2028 to address Iranian threats. And accelerate co-development and support Israeli development of missile defense systems, and to engage in discussions to bolster Israel's conventional deterrent and deepen intelligence cooperation. The President shall provide assistance to ensure Israel's qualitative military edge and deter Iranian conventional and nuclear threats. It is the sense of Congress that Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control should be fully funded to ensure strict enforcement of sanctions against Iranian actors in the areas of ballistic or cruise missile proliferation, terrorism, and human rights abuses, and to ensure effective re-imposition of sanctions in the event of Iran's violation or breach of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). US property sanctions shall be continued against Iranian personsentities engaged in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, including missile proliferation, terrorism, or human rights abuses, until the President makes public a notification that justifies lifting sanctions. The President shall report to Congress every 180 days regarding specified uses of funds by Iran received as part of sanctions relief under the JCPOA. If the President determines that Iran has directed or conducted an act of terrorism against the United States or that Iran has substantially increased its operational or financial support for a terrorist organization that threatens US interests or allies, there shall be an expedited procedure for congressional approval of new sanctions against Iran. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended to require the President to report to Congress every 180 days regarding Iranian research and development and breakout times. The President shall designate within the State Department a special coordinator for implementation of and compliance with the JCPOA regarding the Iran's nuclear program. It is the sense of Congress that: Iran should continue to be prohibited from undertaking any activity related to ballistic or cruise missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. And the International Atomic Energy Agency must have sufficient funding, manpower, and authority to undertake its verification responsibilities related to the JCPOA or any other related agreement.
Hazard Reporting Protection Act of 1999 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to revise and expand protections for employees reporting workplace hazards to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Includes reporting any injury, illness or unsafe condition among those employee actions in exercise of their rights under the Act for which employers are prohibited from discharging or otherwise discriminating against them. Prohibits discharging or discriminating against an employee for refusing to perform the employee's duties when the employee has a reasonable apprehension that performing such duties would result in serious injury or serious impairment of health to the employee or other employees. Allows discrimination complaints to be filed by other persons on behalf of employees, or directly by employees. Extends from 30 to 180 days the deadline for filing a complaint after an alleged violation. Requires a preliminary order providing relief to accompany any findings of the Secretary of Labor that there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation has occurred. Authorizes the Secretary to order various types of preliminary and final relief, including correction of violations, reinstatement, compensatory and exemplary damages, and payment of legal costs. Sets forth administrative and judicial review procedures.
Directs the Secretary of Energy to award competitive matching grants to consortia of institutions of higher education (IHEs) located in at least six regions covering all the states to conduct research, extension, and education programs relating to the energy needs of such regions. Includes among such needs: (1) the promotion of low-carbon clean and green energy and related jobs. (2) the development of low-carbon green fuels to reduce dependency on oil. (3) the development of energy storage and energy management innovations for intermittent renewable technologies. And (4) the accelerated deployment of efficient-energy technologies in buildings and manufacturing facilities. Allows federally funded research and development centers to be members of such consortia. Requires each grantee to maintain an Energy Analysis Center to provide the IHEs in the region with analysis and data management support. Authorizes appropriations for this Act's grant program and the Department of Energy's Sun Grant program, which supports research involving bioenergy and biofuels production.
Integrity of the United States Courts Act of 2001 - Amends the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Implementation Act to permit a party or person to file with the US Court of International Trade an appeal of a determination of a binational panel, alleging that a panel determination was based on a misinterpretation of US law, a member of a binational panel is guilty of gross misconduct, bias, or serious conflict of interest, or that the panel seriously departed from a fundamental rule of procedure or exceeded its own authority, and such actions have materially affected panel determinations with respect to antidumping and countervailing duty cases and threaten the integrity of the panel review process. Authorizes a party to file an appeal of the antidumping or countervailing duty determination with the US Court of International Trade if such party has requested a panel review of the determination, but such panel is not convened within 315 days. Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to grant the US Court of International Trade jurisdiction over the review of a final determination of a binational panel or an investigating authority. Declares that the amendments made by this Act with respect to antidumping and countervailing duty law shall apply to goods from Canada and Mexico.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall: (1) be appointed from among individuals recommended by a Selection Commission established by this Act, and (2) serve a six-year term.
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1998 - Amends the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994 to prohibit the sale, importation, and exportation of products intended for human consumption or application containing, or labeled or advertised as containing, any substance derived from any species of rhinoceros or tiger. Sets forth both criminal and civil penalties. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to develop and implement an educational outreach program in the United States for the conservation of rhinoceros and tiger species. Authorizes appropriations through FY 2002.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exempt State and local candidate committees, as well as local committees of political parties, from specified notification requirements. (2) exempt certain State and local political organizations from specified reporting requirements. (3) remove language dictating that certain political organizations with gross receipts of $25,000 or more for a taxable year and specified political newsletter funds with such receipts shall file income tax returns. (4) mandate that, with certain designated exceptions, every political organization with gross receipts of $25,000 or more for a taxable year and specified political newsletter funds with such receipts file information returns with specified information including income, receipts and disbursements, as well as facts deemed necessary by the Secretary of the Treasury, (5) authorize the Secretary to waive certain related penalties, and (6) amend related penalty provisions.
Drug Trafficking Elimination Act of 2007 - Amends the Controlled Substances Act and the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act to increase prison terms or impose mandatory minimum prison terms for: (1) manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing certain large amounts of heroin, marihuana, or methamphetamine, (2) importing or exporting such drugs, (3) manufacturing or cultivating a controlled substance on federal property. (4) using hazardous substances on federal land in connection with illegal drug activities. (5) possessing a listed chemical with intent to manufacture a controlled substance. (6) committing a crime of violence during and in relation to a drug trafficking crime, (7) engaging in a dangerous drug trafficking organization. (8) distributing controlled substances to persons under age 21 or to a pregnant person, (9) distributing controlled substances in or near schools. And (10) employing or involving persons under age 18 in illegal drug activities. Directs the Attorney General to develop a National Drug Trafficking Enforcement Strategy.
Preventing a Government Shutdown Act - Provides for automatic continuing appropriations if a regular appropriation bill for a fiscal year does not become law or a joint resolution making continuing appropriations is not in effect.
Ban Poisonous Additives Act of 2011 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to deem to be adulterated: (1) food intended for children three years of age or younger if the container is composed of bisphenol A (BPA). (2) a baby bottle or cup that is intended for use by children three years of age or younger, that does not contain a food when such bottle or cup is sold or distributed at retail, and that is composed of BPA. And (3) infant formula if the container is composed of BPA. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to: (1) issue a revised safety assessment for food containers composed of BPA, taking into consideration different types of such containers and the use of such containers with respect to different foods. And (2) determine whether there is a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from aggregate exposure to BPA through food containers or other items composed of BPA, taking into consideration potential adverse effects from low-dose exposure and the effects of exposure on vulnerable populations, including pregnant women, infants, children, the elderly, and populations with high exposure to BPA.
Employee Benefit Plan Security and Protection Act of 1994 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code to revise provisions regarding employee benefit plan fiduciary duties in relation to external benefits, social investing, and economically targeted investments.
Congressional Openness Act - Requires the Director of the Congressional Research Service (CRS) to make accessible to the public via a centralized electronic database all information available through the CRS web site that is not confidential nor the product of an individual, office, or committee research request, including all CRS issue briefs, reports, and authorization or appropriations products. Requires the information to be made accessible between 30 and 40 days after it is first available to Members of Congress through the CRS web site. Directs the Secretary of the Senate, through the Office of Public Records, to make the following information available on the Internet for purposes of access and retrieval by the public: (1) lobbyist disclosure reports, within 90 days after they are received. And (2) gift rule disclosure reports, within five days after they are received. Requires the Superintendent of Documents, under the direction of the Public Printer in the Government Printing Office, to include information about such available documents in the electronic directory of Federal electronic information. Requires public access to: (1) the CRS information through the websites maintained by members and committees of the Senate. And (2) the lobbyist and gift rule disclosure reports through the US Senate website. Makes the CRS Director responsible for maintaining, updating, and editing the information made available on the Internet under this Act. Allows the Director to make such information available without the prior approval of specified congressional committees. Expresses the sense of the Senate that each standing and special committee of the Senate and each Joint Committee of the Congress should provide access via the Internet to publicly available committee information, documents, and proceedings, including bills, reports, and transcripts of committee meetings that are open to the public.
Requires the Secretary of Education, beginning in FY2011, to pay to Fort Lewis College in Colorado an amount equal to the charges for tuition for enrolled Indian students who are not Colorado residents. Limits the amount paid to Fort Lewis College per fiscal year to an amount equal to the charges for tuition for Indian students who were non-Colorado residents and were enrolled for the academic year 2010-2011. Treats amounts received under this Act as a reimbursement from Colorado to Fort Lewis College for complying with federal law requiring the admission of Indian students at the College free of charge of tuition. Prohibits anything in this Act from being construed as relieving Colorado from reimbursing Fort Lewis College for each academic year: (1) with respect to enrolled Indian students who are not Colorado residents, any amount of the charges for their tuition which exceeds the amount received under this Act. And (2) with respect to enrolled Indian students who are Colorado residents, an amount equal to the charges for their tuition.
Clarence Gideon Full Access to Justice Act or the Gideon Act This bill amends the federal criminal code by establishing the Defender Office for Supreme Court Advocacy as a private, nonmembership, nonprofit corporation. It must advocate on behalf of individuals in noncapital cases involving an issue of federal criminal statutory law or constitutional law before: (1) the Supreme Court of the United States, and (2) the highest courts in the states when resources permit. The office may also provide assistance to attorneys advocating on behalf of those individuals.
Marketplace Fairness Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that states should be able to enforce their existing sales and use tax laws and to treat similar sales transactions equally, without regard to the manner in which the sale is transacted, and to collect, or decide not to collect, taxes that are owed under state law. Authorizes each member state under the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement to require all sellers not qualifying for a small-seller exception to collect and remit sales and use taxes with respect to remote sales under provisions of the Agreement. Defines remote sale as a sale of goods or services attributed to a state with respect to which a seller does not have adequate physical presence to establish a nexus with the state. Allows a state that is not a member state under the Agreement to require sellers to collect and remit sales and use taxes with respect to remote sales sourced to such state if the state adopts and implements certain minimum simplification requirements, including: (1) providing a single state agency to administer all sales and use taxes, (2) establishing a uniform sales and use tax base, (3) relieving remote sellers from liability to the state or a locality for collection of the incorrect amount of sales or use tax based on information provided by the state, and (4) providing remote sellers 30 days' notice of a tax rate change by any locality in the state.
Helping Individuals Return to Employment Act or HIRE Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to award competitive grants to eligible entities to hire unemployed individuals age 16 and older to perform a minimum of 20 hours per week of work to benefit certain communities, including activities such as public works, beautification, historic restoration, tutoring, and adult education. Restricts such grants to eligible entities located in or primarily serving in a community designated either as a renewal community, an empowerment zone, or a historically underutilized business zone (HUBZone), if the unemployment rate in the area is higher than 7 during the 3-month period preceding award of the grant. Requires that priority in the award of grants be given to individuals who have been unemployed for more than a year. Prescribes certain grant limitations.
Tax Relief for Long-Term Care Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for long-term care insurance premiums and for care provided by a caregiver to a family member or dependent with long-term care needs who resides with such caregiver. Phases in a maximum credit amount of $3,000 between 2009 and 2013. Reduces such credit amount for a taxpayer whose adjusted gross income exceeds $75,000 .
Cyber Scholarship Opportunities Act of 2017 This bill amends the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2014 to require the federal cyber scholarship-for-service program that the National Science Foundation (NSF) coordinates with the Department of Homeland Security to include scholarship recipients who are students pursuing an associate's degree in a cybersecurity field without the intent of transferring to a bachelor's degree program and who either have a bachelor's degree already or are veterans of the Armed Forces. The post-award employment obligations of scholarship recipients pursuing a doctoral or master's degree may include work at an institution of higher education or for a local educational agency teaching cybersecurity skills. Scholarship eligibility factors are revised to include: (1) an individual's skills and abilities under the National Institute of Standards and Technology's national cybersecurity awareness and education program, and (2) students pursuing a degree on a less than full-time but not less than half-time basis. The NSF must work with the Office of Personnel Management to consolidate information about cyber scholarships programs and job opportunities into a single online resource center. The NSF may carry out a program to improve cybersecurity education at the K-12 level. The NSF may: (1) grant exceptions from the post-award employment obligations to students who agree to work in a critical infrastructure mission at a federal government corporation or a state, local, or tribal government-affiliated component of a critical infrastructure sector. Or (2) develop a pilot program to enhance critical infrastructure protection training for students pursuing careers in cybersecurity.
Individual Income Tax Rate Reduction Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish new, lower tax rates for individuals. Increases the standard deduction and provides that such deduction on a joint return shall be twice the amount of a single return.
National Defense Energy Savings Act of 2003 - Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to: (1) enter into an energy savings performance contract for the sole purpose of achieving ancillary energy savings and benefits. And (2) incur obligations under the contract to finance energy conservation measures so long as guaranteed savings exceed the debt service requirements. Directs the Secretary to issue final rules establishing implementation procedures and methods that meet specified requirements. Authorizes the Secretary to implement a pilot program to enter into up to ten energy savings performance contracts in nonbuilding applications.
Alternative Minimum Tax Repeal Act of 2001 - Amends the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) state that the tentative minimum tax on any taxpayer other than a corporation for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2010, shall be zero. And (2) provide for reductions in such tax until such time.
National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to: (1) enhance and expand infrastructure and activities to track the epidemiology of neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. And (2) incorporate information obtained through such activities into a National Neurological Diseases Surveillance System. Requires the Secretary to ensure that the System is designed in a manner that facilitates further research on neurological diseases. Requires the Secretary to provide for the collection and storage of information on the incidence and prevalence of neurological diseases in the United States and other information on neurological diseases, such as demographics information, risk factors, or diagnosis and progression markers. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) provide for the collection and storage of information relevant to analysis on neurological diseases, such as information concerning the epidemiology, natural history, prevention, detection, management, and treatment of the diseases and the development of outcomes measures. And (2) address issues identified through consultations with individuals with appropriate expertise. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to, or enter into contracts or cooperative agreements with, public or private nonprofit entities to carry out activities under this Act. Requires the Secretary to: (1) make information and analysis in the System available to federal agencies and to the public, including researchers. And (2) ensure that privacy and security protections applicable to the System are at least as stringent as the health privacy and security protections under current federal law. Sets forth reporting requirements. Authorizes appropriations for FY2012-FY2016.
United States Commission on International Religious Freedom Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2011 - Amends the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 to prohibit: (1) an individual from serving more than two consecutive terms as a member of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom, (2) each member serving on the date of enactment of this Act from being reappointed to more than one additional consecutive term, (3) a member attending less than 75 of the meetings during one of such member's terms from being eligible for reappointment, and (4) a member from being eligible to be elected as Chair of the Commission for a second, consecutive term. Establishes staggered office terms by modifying certain terms of office conditions for members appointed to serve from May 15, 2012, through May 14, 2014. Requires, for purposes of providing remedies and procedures to address alleged violations of rights and protections that pertain to various specified antidiscrimination laws, that all employees of the Commission be treated as employees whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives and that the Commission be treated as an employing office of the Senate or House. Increases to $250,000 the maximum amount the Commission may expend in any fiscal year to procure temporary or intermittent services contracts for the conduct of certain activities necessary to Commission functions. Extends the Commission's termination date to September 30, 2013.
Youth Opioid Use Treatment Help Act of 2017 or the YOUTH Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to expand the grant program for substance abuse treatment services for children and adolescents to cover young adults. The Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) must award grants for demonstration programs to: (1) expand access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders among adolescents and young adults, or (2) create and distribute resources on medication-assisted treatment training and implementation for health care providers of children, adolescents, and young adults. AHRQ must report on the demonstration programs and the availability of medication-assisted treatment for adolescents and young adults. The report must include recommendations for ensuring such treatment is accessible.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an itemized deduction for personal interest paid on an education loan by a health care professional performing services in a rural community or on certain Indian reservations for at least 24 consecutive months under a written agreement. Limits such deduction to $5,000. Allows the computation of such deduction in determining adjusted gross income.
Revises the purpose of the National Park Foundation to: (1) include developing and implementing means of securing funds from the private sector to enhance funding for the National Park System (NPS) without supplanting otherwise available appropriated funds. And (2) exclude accepting and administering private gifts on behalf of the National Park Service. Grants the Foundation exclusive authority to license or authorize persons to use such trademarks, symbols, likenesses, or slogans that are adopted and owned by the Foundation and for which it has filed an application with the US Patent and Trademark Office for the purpose of representing, promoting, or advertising for commercial purposes or pecuniary gain that an individual, company, or particular good service is an official sponsor or official supporter of the NPS or the Service. Specifies conditions under which such license or authorization may be granted, such as subjecting the criteria and guidelines for the competitive issuance and the maintenance of a license or authorization to the prior written approval of the Secretary of the Interior. Authorizes the Foundation to license property. Prohibits the Foundation, except as provided in this Act, from: (1) engaging in any business for pecuniary profit or gain, (2) operating any commercial establishment or enterprise within NPS units. Or (3) engaging in any lobbying activities concerning NPS management. Requires: (1) all of the Foundation's income, net of reasonable operating expenses, contributions to local government, and reserves determined necessary or appropriate by its Board to be provided for the Service's benefit. And (2) all net income derived from the licenses and authorizations under this Act to be expended in accordance with Service's policies and priorities on programs, projects, or activities that benefit the NPS or the Service as identified by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Foundation. Sets forth congressional reporting requirements. Subjects persons to a civil suit and remedies for unlawful use of the Foundation's name, trademark, symbol, slogan, or any facsimile or simulation thereof to suggest falsely that an individual, company, or particular good or service is an official sponsor or official supporter of the NPS or the Service for commercial purposes. Includes the Foundation as a private corporation established under Federal law for purposes of provisions concerning audits of federally chartered corporations.
Bodie Protection Act of 1993 - Prohibits the Bodie Bowl (California) from being available for any mineral mining, leasing, or disposal activities, except under valid existing claims. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to undertake an expedited validity review of all unpatented mining claims located within the Bodie Bowl. Prescribes limitations for the issuance of patents for mining and mill site claims on such lands. Subjects mineral exploration, mining, beneficiation, and processing on unpatented mining claims within the Bodie Bowl to regulations prescribed to ensure that such activities do not adversely affect historic, cultural, recreational, and natural resource values of the Bodie Bowl. Mandates reclamation of the effects of mining exploration by mining operators. Exempts the holder of any unpatented mining or mill site claim within the Bodie Bowl from specified statutory expenditure and filing requirements. Declares that, in lieu of filing a certain affidavit of assessment work, such holder shall only be required to file a specified notice of intention to hold certain mining claims. Directs the Secretary to: (1) review possible actions to preserve specified characteristics of the Bodie Bowl. And (2) report to certain congressional committees recommendations to achieve such preservation.
Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal judicial code to reauthorize the independent counsel law for an additional five years. Requires an independent counsel to: (1) conduct all activities with due regard for expense, authorize only reasonable and lawful expenditures, and assign to a specific employee the duty of certifying that expenditures of the independent counsel are reasonable and made in accordance with law. And (2) comply with the established policies of the Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding expenditures of funds, except to the extent that compliance would be inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. Directs: (1) the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to provide administrative support and guidance to each independent counsel. And (2) the Administrator of General Services to provide office space for each independent counsel. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) independent counsel per diem expenses, (2) independent counsel employee pay comparability, (3) ethics enforcement, (4) compliance with DOJ policies, (5) publication of reports, (6) annual reports to the Congress, (7) periodic reappointment of independent counsel. And (8) audits by the Comptroller General. Authorizes the Attorney General to conduct a preliminary investigation upon the receipt of information sufficient to constitute grounds to investigate whether a Member of Congress may have violated any Federal criminal law, other than a violation classified as a Class B or C misdemeanor or an infraction, when the Attorney General determines that it would be in the public interest. Includes as grounds for removal of an independent counsel physical or mental disability consistent with prohibitions on discrimination otherwise imposed by law . Requires an independent counsel to comply with guidelines and procedures used by DOJ in the handling and use of classified materials.
Small Business Investment Improvement Act of 1999 - Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to: (1) define interest for purposes of small business loans granted under the Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) program. And (2) increase the FY 1999 and 2000 funding levels for such program. Provides for the determination of an eligible small business or smaller enterprise that is not required to pay Federal income tax at the corporate level but that is required to pass income through to its shareholders or partners by using a specified formula to compute its after-tax income. Requires the Small Business Administration to issue SBIC guarantees and trust certificates at periodic intervals of not less than every 12 months.
Officer Daniel Faulkner Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act of 2010 - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to eliminate the expected family contribution used in determining a student's need for title IV assistance in the case of a student applicant who is eligible for a Pell Grant and whose parent or guardian died as a result of performing service as a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew. Requires such student to be less than 24 years old and enrolled at an institution of higher education at the time of his or her parent's or guardian's death. Gives financial aid administrators the responsibility of verifying that such students are eligible to have their expected family contribution adjusted , and of adjusting it, unless the Secretary of Education establishes an alternate method of adjusting their expected family contribution. Prohibits the total Pell Grant of a student whose Pell Grant is increased by reason of this Act from being considered in calculating that student's educational assistance benefits under the Public Safety Officer's Benefits program. Alters the source of the annual Pell Grant increase for such students to require that it be provided only to the extent that funds are specifically provided in advance to such students in an appropriation Act for that award year.
Directs US Customs and Border Protection to liquidate or reliquidate certain entries of top-of-the-stove stainless steel cooking ware from the Republic of Korea.
Authorizes: (1) the Secretary to accept up to $17 million in contributed funds from Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming , or political subdivisions or organizations thereof, pursuant to agreements that provide for the contributions to be used for capital project costs. (2) the Secretary and the Secretary of Energy, acting through the Western Area Power Administration, to utilize for such projects up to $17 million in power revenues collected pursuant to the Colorado River Storage Project Act. And (3) the Secretary to utilize such power revenues for the annual base funding contributions to the programs by the Bureau for a specified period. Requires the Secretary to report to the appropriate congressional committees on the utilization of such power revenues for base funding. Authorizes the retention of unexpended appropriated funds for projects under this Act for use in future fiscal years. States that nothing in this Act shall restrict the Secretary from funding activities or capital projects in accordance with the Federal Government's Indian trust responsibility. Terminates all authorities for the respective Program upon the expiration of the current time period for the respective Cooperative Agreement unless, at least one year prior to expiration, the time period for such Agreement is extended. Provides that no action taken pursuant to this Act shall: (1) be considered in determining whether a district has discharged its obligation to repay the construction cost of project facilities used to make irrigation water available for delivery to land in the district. (2) serve as the basis for reinstating acreage limitation provisions in a district that has completed payment of its construction obligations. Or (3) serve as the basis for increasing the construction repayment obligation of the district and thereby extending the period during which the acreage limitation provisions will apply.
Community Gardening and Nutrition Act of 2014 - Amends the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 to require the Director of the Corporation for National and Community Service to establish a Community Garden Pilot Program under the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA) program. Requires the Program to address the health and nutrition of individuals in low-income and underserved communities through activities that include: creating new community gardens and supporting and expanding existing community gardens. Recruiting local community members to actively engage in community gardens and gardening projects, transforming vacant places into community garden plots. Increasing community members' access to healthy foods and local foods while also encouraging them to stay active. Expanding anti-poverty efforts by teaching basic nutrition and self-reliance through community gardening. And developing initiatives that increase the community's access to healthy, locally grown foods. Requires the Director to carry out at least 40 projects under the Program. Requires the Director to give priority to: (1) volunteers with experience in health, nutrition, and gardening, (2) projects located in varied geographic regions, and (3) selecting a balance of urban and rural projects.
Gender Advancement in Pay Act or the GAP Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to expand exceptions to the prohibition against sex discrimination to include payments pursuant to a differential based on expertise, shift, or a business-related factor other than sex, including but not limited to education, training, or experience. The statute of limitations under the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 for a charge of prohibited sex discrimination, or an action by or on behalf of an employee for such discrimination, shall be tolled until the earlier of: (1) the date on which the Equal Employment Commission or the Department of Justice brings an action or notifies the employee concerned with respect to the charge under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, or (2) 270 days after the charge is filed. Nonretaliation prohibitions are extended to cover inquiring about, discussing, or disclosing the wages of an employee or of another employee, or declining to discuss or disclose the employee's wages, with specified exceptions. An employer shall be considered to have committed an unlawful act if the employer requires an employee to sign a contract or waiver that would prohibit the employee from disclosing information about the employee's wages. Civil penalties are established for violation of prohibitions against sex discrimination. The Department of Labor, together with the Department of Education, shall conduct a multistate study, through a grant to a nonprofit research institution, that includes strategies to increase the participation of women in high-wage, high-demand occupations and industries in which women are underrepresented. The Government Accountability Office shall also conduct a multistate study to develop such strategies.
Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2014 - Prohibits a federal banking agency from suggesting, requesting, or ordering a depository institution to terminate a specific customer account, or otherwise restrict or discourage it from entering into or maintaining a banking relationship with a specific customer, unless: (1) the agency has a material reason to do so, and (2) the reason is not based solely on reputation risk. Prescribes requirements for notice from the federal banking agency to the depository institution about such a customer account restriction or termination. But states that notice to the customer is not required. Amends the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 to revise requirements for summoning witnesses and requiring production of books or other records the Attorney General deems relevant or material to a civil investigation in contemplation of a civil proceeding which may result in civil penalties for specified violations.
Stop Tampering of Prescription Pills Act of 2015 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to deny approval to a new oral opioid that does not have properties that make the drug significantly more difficult to abuse if an abuse-deterrent drug containing the same opioid is available. The FDA may approve an opioid drug that is not abuse-deterrent if approval is necessary to prevent or alleviate a drug shortage or to address a significant unmet public health need. To be approved by the FDA, a generic version of an abuse-deterrent brand name drug must be at least comparably abuse-deterrent and its active components must not differ in any material respect from the brand name drug. An approved generic drug is not bioequivalent to, and does not have the same therapeutic effect as, a brand name drug that becomes abuse-deterrent unless the generic drug is at least comparably abuse-deterrent. Approval of a generic oral opioid is withdrawn if the brand name drug is not abuse-deterrent and not available and there is an approved abuse-deterrent drug available that contains the same opioid in the same dose. Approval of an oral opioid is withdrawn if the drug is not abuse-deterrent and there is an approved abuse-deterrent drug available that contains the same opioid. Withdrawal of approval may be waived by the FDA for a drug intended for a special needs population. The FDA must delay withdrawal to give the drug sponsor an opportunity to obtain approval for an abuse-deterrent formulation of the drug.
Insular Fair Wage and Human Rights Act of 1997 - Amends Federal law to prohibit the affixation of the Made in the USA label to a textile fiber product from the Northern Mariana Islands unless: (1) each worker producing such product was paid a minimum wage equal to or greater than a specified amount. And (2) the product was manufactured in compliance with all Federal labor laws, including, but not limited to, the National Labor Relations Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, and the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Applies to the Northern Mariana Islands: (1) the Immigration and Nationality Act. And (2) the minimum wage provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as modified by this Act. Requires a minimum wage through December 31, 1997, of $3.55 per hour, adjusted semiannually thereafter in $.50 increments until it equals the minimum wage required by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Requires a study of the extent of human and labor rights violations in the Northern Mariana Islands, which shall be included in the Secretary of the Interior's annual Federal-CNMI Initiative on Labor Immigration, and Law Enforcement report to the Congress. Authorizes appropriations.
Soil and Water Protection Act of 1992 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, through the Soil Conservation Service, to establish a Federal energy conservation grant program.
Comprehensive Holocaust Accountability in Insurance Measure - Authorizes the States to establish information requirements on insurers as a condition of doing insurance business in the host State. Permits a State to require that an insurer provide specified information regarding Holocaust era insurance policies, including policies sold or held. Permits a State to require that an insurer certify that: (1) proceeds of the policy were paid. (2) the beneficiaries of the policy or heirs could not, after diligent search, be located, and the proceeds were distributed to Holocaust survivors or charities. (3) a court of law has certified a plan for the distribution of the proceeds. Or (4) the proceeds have not been distributed. Establishes a Federal cause of action for any covered claim brought under this Act against one of several specified foreign insurance companies that arises out of the insurance coverage involved in an original request for payment made by a listed Holocaust victim or the heirs of beneficiaries of such victim. Requires an action brought under this Act to be filed not later than ten years after its enactment. Lists covered foreign insurance companies.
Preparing Teachers for Digital Age Learners Act of 2008 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to replace the Preparing Tomorrow's Teachers to Use Technology program of part B of title II with the Preparing Teachers for Digital Age Learners program. Authorizes the Secretary to provide funds, through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements, to consortia of institutions of higher education, states or local educational agencies, and entities able to assist in the technology-related reform of teacher preparation programs, covering up to three-fourths of the costs of projects to: (1) develop long-term partnerships among consortium members that are focused on effective teaching with modern digital tools and content that connect pre-service teacher preparation with high-need schools. Or (2) transform the way departments, schools, and colleges of education teach classroom technology integration to teacher candidates.
Regional Innovation and Entrepreneurship Enhancement Act of 2014 - Amends the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 to: (1) expand the duties and reporting requirements of the Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship, including by requiring the development of a strategic plan to guide the activities of the Office, (2) authorize appropriations for such Office for FY2014-FY2018. And (3) modify the Regional Innovation Program established by such Act to eliminate provisions relating to science and research parks and require outreach to public and private sector entities in rural communities to encourage participation in Program activities.
Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area Designation Act This bill designates approximately 99,653 acres of Forest Service land in Oregon as the quot, Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Management Area. quot. The special management area shall be administered by the Forest Service to: conserve and enhance the natural character, scientific use, and the botanical, recreational, ecological, fish and wildlife, scenic, drinking water, and cultural values of the special management area. Maintain and seek to enhance the wild salmonid habitat of the special management area. Maintain or enhance the watershed as a thermal refuge for wild salmonids. And preserve opportunities for recreation, including primitive recreation. The bill withdraws the federal land within the boundaries of the special management area's river segments from: entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, location, entry, and patent under the mining laws. And disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
Social Security Protection and Tax Relief Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a 12 percent tax on an individual's social security taxable income. Defines such income as adjusted gross income reduced by the greater of: (1) the sum of the standard deduction applicable to the taxpayer and the deduction for personal exemptions. Or (2) the aggregate exempt income of the taxpayer for the taxable year. Defines such exempt income as amounts received as a pension or annuity, social security benefits, and earned income. Decreases the old age, survivors, and disability income tax rates.
Community Hazard Assessment and Mitigation Program Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), to provide grants to certain areas to prepare for a tsunami. Requires the Director to: (1) give priority to areas in which the likelihood of a tsunami striking in the next 50 years is 10 or greater. And (2) award grants to state, territory, local, or tribal emergency management departments on a competitive basis considering financial need, benefit to the community, and a demonstrated ability to cooperate with other emergency services providers. Authorizes the use of grant funds to: (1) establish or improve warning systems, (2) purchase public safety agency rescue equipment. (3) reinforce buildings and facilities in maintaining continuity of critical services, (4) provide post-tsunami shelters and supplies. And (5) develop outreach programs to educate residents and tourists about different types of tsunamis and how to react to each type. Sets forth matching fund requirements, based on population. Requires the Director to: (1) determine if grant recipients meet National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) certification standards. And (2) evaluate the effectiveness and tsunami readiness of programs established pursuant to his Act.
Security Assessment Feasibility for Equipment Testing and Evaluation of Capabilities for our Homeland Act or the SAFE TECH Act This bill directs the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to develop a program allowing a vendor to obtain performance testing of transportation security screening technology through a third party as an alternative to the TSA's regular testing process. The TSA must develop a process for reciprocal recognition of security standards in coordination with the European Civil Aviation Conference. The Government Accountability Office must report on the third-party testing program established by this bill.
Nursing School Capacity Act of 2005 - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to request that the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) conduct a study to: (1) identify constraints encountered by schools of nursing in admitting and graduating the number of registered nurses necessary to ensure patient safety and meet the need for quality assurance in the provision of health care. And (2) develop recommendations to alleviate the constraints on a short-term and long-term basis. Directs the Secretary to provide that the study consider the perspectives of: (1) nurses and physicians in inpatient, outpatient, and residential facilities, (2) faculty and administrators of nursing schools, (3) providers of health plans or health insurance, and (4) consumers.
Drug-Free Indian Health Service Act of 2016 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to implement mandatory random drug testing for Indian Health Service (IHS) employees who provide health care or administrative services to patients at IHS health care facilities. Officers of the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service are exempt from this drug testing. Each employee must be tested at least once per year for specified drugs. HHS must notify employees of the implementation of this drug testing. Employees selected for drug testing must be notified of their selection on the same day as the testing. Employees found to have engaged in illegal drug use, through testing, direct observation, evidence from a conviction, or voluntary admission, are prohibited from providing services to patients and referred to the HHS Employee Assistance Program (EAP). At the discretion of HHS, an employee may return to duty after obtaining counseling or rehabilitation through the EAP. HHS may initiate an adverse action, including removal, against an employee engaged in illegal drug use unless the employee voluntarily admits to illegal drug use, ceases such activity, and obtains counseling or rehabilitation through the EAP. Employees who refuse to submit to drug testing are prohibited from providing services to patients and are subject to adverse action.
Syrian War Crimes Accountability Act of 2014 - States that Congress: (1) condemns the ongoing violence, use of chemical weapons, targeting of civilian populations, and systematic gross human rights violations carried out by government of Syria and pro-government forces under the direction of President Bashar al-Assad, as well as abuses committed by extremist groups and other combatants involved in the civil war in Syria, (2) supports the people of Syria seeking democratic change. (3) urges all parties to the conflict to halt attacks on civilians. (4) calls on the President to support efforts in Syria and on the part of the international community to ensure accountability for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed during the conflict. And (5) calls for a United Nations (U. N.) Security Council investigation into gross violations of human rights and war crimes committed during the Syrian conflict. Direct the Secretary of State to report to Congress regarding war crimes and crimes against humanity in Syria.
Home Energy Loss Prevention Act - Prohibits a seller of housing that will be purchased with the assistance of a federally related housing loan from selling such housing, unless: (1) no less than five years before the sale of such housing, an energy audit is conducted. (2) the seller provides the purchaser a copy of audit results. And (3) such results are submitted to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Requires such audits to be conducted by a home energy auditor or equivalent. Requires such audit results to be recorded using energy audit and disclosure forms prescribed by the Secretary and to include: (1) a standardized ratings score that allows the housing's energy efficiency to be compared to the energy efficiency of similar housing. And (2) a prioritized list, based on cost-effectiveness and energy savings, of potential energy efficiency improvements. Establishes notice requirements for persons who accept such loans. Exempts from such requirements the seller of housing that: (1) was constructed no more than five years before the time of sale. And (2) is Energy Star qualified or certified under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating System of the United States Green Building Council or an equivalent certification system approved by the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to maintain an online, publicly accessible database containing copies of audit results. Authorizes the Secretary to grant a seller an exemption from any requirement of this Act that would cause the seller undue hardship due to circumstances unique to the housing and not based on a condition caused by the seller's actions. Requires the Secretary to assess persons that make federally related housing loans a fee for each such loan made and to deposit such fees in the Home Energy Loss Prevention Fund , which shall be available to the Secretary to carry out HUD's responsibilities under this Act.
Amends the Delaware and Lehigh National Heritage Corridor Act of 1988 to revise the appropriate steps the Delaware and Lehigh Navigation Canal National Heritage Corridor Commission is required to take in implementing its Cultural Heritage and Corridor Management Plan for the Delaware and Lehigh Navigation Canal National Heritage Corridor. Requires the Delaware and Lehigh National Heritage Corridor, Incorporated to develop a Strategic Plan for the Corridor that takes into account the findings and recommendations of a specified study conducted by the National Park Service Conservation Study Institute. Requires the plan to compliment the Corridor's management plan. Makes the Corporation the management entity for the Corridor, assuming the Commission's duties in implementing the management action plan. Authorizes the Corporation to use federal funds to make grants to and enter into cooperative agreements with Pennsylvania, local governments, nonprofit corporations, and individuals. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource study of sites and associated landscape features within the Corridor, including resources of the greater anthracite region of Pennsylvania covered by other designated national heritage areas, that contribute to the understanding of the Corridor's national siginificance. Requires the Secretary, in coordination with the Corporation, to evaluate and report to specified congressional committees on the possibility of: (1) designating one or more sites or landscape features as a unit of the National Park System. And (2) coordinating and complementing actions by the Corporation, Pennsylvania, local governments, and nonprofit agencies in the preservation and interpretation of significant resources within the Corridor and greater anthracite region. Extends the Corporation, in place of the Commission, through November 18, 2019.
Strategic Deterrent Sustainment Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Defense to report to the congressional defense committees respecting the capability of the US industrial base to: (1) maintain, modernize, and sustain the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) system until at least 2030. And (2) replace the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile with a follow-on land-based strategic deterrent system after 2030.
Investing in Our Future Act of 2011- Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose an excise tax on currency transactions exceeding $10,000 equal to 0.005 of the value of the currency acquired in the transaction . Establishes in the Treasury: (1) the Child Care Assistance Trust Fund, which shall be funded with 10 of the revenues from the currency transactions tax and which shall be used to provide increased allocations to states for child care assistance. (2) the Multilateral Global Health Trust Fund, which shall be funded with 25 of the revenues from such tax and from which the Secretary of State shall make grants to assist developing countries in addressing HIVAIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, maternal mortality, family planning, neglected diseases, and other health issues. And (3) the Global Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation Trust Fund, which shall be funded with 25 of the revenues from such tax and which shall be used for contributions to the Green Climate Fund, and the Adaptation Fund, established pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Requires remaining tax revenues to be used for federal budget deficit reduction or reduction of the federal debt.
Amends the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act of 2012 with respect to mandatory public, on-line reporting of financial disclosure statements by congressional staff and executive branch officers and employees. Applies mandatory public, on-line reporting of financial disclosure statements only to Members of Congress, congressional candidates, the President, the Vice President, and executive branch officers at levels I and II of the Executive Schedule who require nomination by the President and confirmation by the Senate. Extends until January 1, 2014, the deadline for: the Secretary, the Sergeant at Arms, and the Clerk to develop systems to enable the electronic filing of financial disclosure reports as well as their on-line public availability. The Director of the Office of Government Ethics to develop such systems for financial disclosure forms filed by covered executive branch officials. Repeals: (1) the prohibition against requiring a login to search or sort the data contained in the publicly available financial disclosure systems, and (2) the requirement that a login protocol with the name of the user be utilized by a person downloading data contained in the reports.
Consumer Assurance of Radiologic Excellence Act of 2003 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish standards to assure the safety and accuracy of medical imaging or radiation therapy. States that such standards shall include licensure or certification, accreditation, and other requirements determined by the Secretary. Exempts the standards from applying to physicians, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants. Requires individuals prior to performing or preparing such imaging or therapy to have successfully completed a national exam approved by the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to certify private nonprofit organizations or State agencies as approved bodies with respect to the accreditation of educational programs or the administration of examinations if such organizations or agencies meet certain standards and give certain assurances. Allows the Secretary to withdraw approval from an approved body. Permits the Secretary to develop alternative standards for rural areas if such action is needed to assure access to quality medical imaging.
International Rule of Law and Antiterrorism Act of 2003 - Requires the President to direct: (1) the US Permanent Representative to the United Nations (UN) to use the US vote to establish negotiations with the UN to establish a professional UN civilian police corps (UNCPC). (2) the Secretary of State (Secretary) to request that the UN Secretariat prepare a report concerning the UNCPC's establishment. And (3) the Secretary to work with the UN Secretariat and other UN member states to establish standards and training programs for international civilian police. Expresses the sense of Congress that the UNCPC should: (1) be composed of enforcement professionals who are appropriately trained and equipped for civilian policing functions in UN international peace operations and available for rapid deployment to such operations as needed. (2) be able to deploy not later than 15 days after deployment is authorized pursuant to a UN Security Council resolution, (3) be managed by the UN Civilian Police Division. And (4) be given the appropriate resources to properly do its job. Requires the President to report annually to specified congressional committees on the progress to establish a UNCPC.
Honoring Promises to Service-Disabled Veterans Act of 2011 - Amends the Small Business Act to direct the head of each executive department to submit a quarterly report to the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) containing the percentage of the total value of all prime contracts awarded by the executive department during the preceding three-month period to small business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, including, along with other specified percentages, for contracts awarded to certain contractors required to submit a subcontracting plan, the negotiated percentage goal for utilization of such subcontractors and the total value of subcontracts entered into by the contractor awarded to service-disabled veteran small business concerns. Requires the Administrator to: (1) annually rank the executive departments and contractors concerned based on specified contracting and subcontracting percentages. (2) publish and update at least quarterly, on a publicly accessible website, subject to exceptions for information detrimental to national security, such information reported by the executive departments and the Administrator's annual rankings. And (3) submit to Congress an annual report on the progress of each executive department toward meeting the government-wide goal for service-disabled veterans established in the Veterans Entrepreneurship and Small Business Development Act of 1999.
Requires the Administrator, after being informed of a serious threat that could affect the safety and security of children enrolled in such a childcare facility, to provide notice of the threat to the parents or guardians of each child in the facility. Requires the Administrator to transmit to Congress a comprehensive report on such childcare facilities which includes: (1) an identification and description of each facility. And (2) an assessment of the level of safety and security of children enrolled in the facility and recommendations for enhancing that safety and security. Requires that the Administrator, in conducting such an assessment, examine the windows and interior furnishings of the facility to determine whether adequate protective measures have been implemented to protect children against the dangers associated with windows and interior furnishings in the event of a natural disaster or terrorist attack, including the deadly effect of flying glass. Title II: Federal Protective Service Reform - Federal Protective Service Reform Act of 2000 - Amends the Act of June 1, 1948, to redesignate special policemen of the General Services Administration (GSA) as police officers. Empowers such police officers while on duty (effective only after the Commissioner of the Federal Protective Service to: (1) carry firearms. (2) petition Federal courts for and execute arrest and search warrants, (3) make arrests without a warrant. And (4) conduct investigations, on and off the property, of offenses on such property. Authorizes the Administrator to enter into agreements with State and local governments to obtain authority for police officers appointed under the Act to exercise, concurrently with State and local law enforcement authorities, the powers granted to such officers under this section in areas adjacent to property owned or occupied by the United States and under the charge and control of the Administrator. Increases the maximum penalty for violations of any rules or regulations with respect to Federal property. Empowers special agents with the same authority outside Federal property as police officers have. Directs the Administrator to establish the FPS as a separate operating service of GSA. Provides for the FPS to be headed by a Commissioner who: (1) shall be appointed by and report directly to the Administrator. And (2) has at least five years of professional law enforcement experience in a command or supervisory position. Requires the Commissioner to: (1) assist the Administrator. (2) serve as the US law enforcement officer and security official with respect to the protection of Federal officers and employees in such property , except as otherwise prohibited by law. (3) render assistance to other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies upon request. And (4) coordinate his or her activities with those of the Commissioner of the Public Buildings Service. Requires the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to: (1) conduct a survey of the pay and benefits of all Federal police forces to determine whether there are any disparities between the pay and benefit of such forces that are not commensurate with differences in duties or working conditions. And (2) transmit to Congress a report containing the results of such survey, together with the Director's findings and recommendations. Requires there to be at least 730 full-time police officers in the FPS one year after the enactment of this Act. Prohibits any reduction in such number of officers unless specifically authorized by law. Directs the Commissioner to prescribe minimum standards of suitability for employment to be applied in the contracting of security personnel for Federal property. Authorizes appropriations from the Federal Buildings Fund.
Real Estate Transparency Act of 2007 - Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 to modify requirements governing settlement statements. Requires the originator of a federally related mortgage loan to provide, within three days of a loan application, a written agreement to the applicant itemizing all of the fees the originator may charge at or before loan settlement, including origination, underwriting, and broker fees. Excludes from such requirement bona fide discount points payable by the borrower to reduce the loan's interest rate. Requires an originator fee agreement to set out the following fee payment methods: (1) paying in cash before or at settlement. (2) adding such fees into the total loan amount to be borrowed. And (3) increasing the loan's interest rate. Requires: (1) written and oral explanations of a borrower's payment options. And (2) a borrower's signature attesting agreement with originator fees and with the chosen method of payment. Requires the originator to provide the applicant with a written early settlement statement of all settlement costs to be charged at or before settlement. Shields borrowers from liability for any such fees not disclosed on an early settlement statement, except in certain circumstances. Establishes originator liability to a borrower for non-compliance with this Act, including reimbursement of the borrower for court costs. Repeals the requirement that special information booklets prepared by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for borrowers contain a good faith estimate of the amount or range of expected settlement charges.
Authorizes additional appropriations for personnel and equipment for the United States Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Swan Creek Black River Confederated Ojibwa Tribes of Michigan Act - Reaffirms Federal recognition of the Swan Creek Black River Confederated Ojibwa Tribes of Michigan Indians as a distinct Indian tribe. Provides for the Tribe's tribal lands to be taken by the Secretary of Interior in trust for the benefit of the Tribe. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct by secret ballot an election to adopt a constitution and bylaws for the Tribe.
Reserve Employer Tax Credit Act of 2001 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide: (1) employers a business tax credit for a portion of compensation that was not paid with respect to members of the military reserves who were absent from work on qualified reserve duty, (2) a comparable credit for participating self-employed individuals. And (3) for the deduction of certain expenses paid or incurred by members of a Reserve component of the armed forces.
Temporary Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act of 2001 - Provides for a program of temporary emergency unemployment compensation (TEUC). Sets forth TEUC program requirements for Federal-State agreements, formulas for determining amounts in individual TEUC accounts and weekly benefits, payments to States, and financing. Includes among eligibility requirements an individual's not having rights, with respect to a week, to other compensation . Reduces an individual TEUC account by the aggregate amount of any extended compensation for the same benefit year. Applies TEUC agreements to weeks of unemployment: (1) beginning on or after the first day of the first week after the date on which such agreement is entered into. And (2) ending before the date that is 18 months after enactment of this Act. Provides for a temporary reduction in the interest rate applicable to repayments of advances to State unemployment funds.
Amends Federal copyright law to protect a copyright owner from liability in any criminal or civil action for impairing, with appropriate technology, the unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of his or her copyrighted work on a publicly accessible peer-to-peer file trading network, if such impairment does not, without authorization, alter, delete, or otherwise impair the integrity of any computer file or data residing on the computer of a file trader. Denies such liability protection to a copyright owner who does not comply with certain notification requirements or who: (1) impairs the availability within a publicly accessible peer-to-peer file trading network of a computer file or data that does not contain a work in which the owner has an exclusive copyright. (2) causes economic loss to any person other than affected file traders. Or (3) causes other economic loss of more than $50.00 per impairment to the property of the affected file trader. Conditions a copyright owner's protection from liability upon seven-days' notice to the Department of Justice of the specific technologies intended for use to impair unauthorized distribution, display, performance, or reproduction of a copyrighted work. Requires notice as well, upon request, to an affected file trader or the assignee of an Internet Protocol address used by an affected file trader. Provides for a cause of action against a copyright owner for wrongful impairment, including an action by the Attorney General for injunctive relief in certain circumstances.
Independent Bipartisan Commission on Campaign Finance Reform Act of 1997 - Establishes the Independent Bipartisan Commission on Campaign Finance Reform to study the law relating to elections for Federal office and to report and recommend legislation to reform that law. Provides for expedited congressional consideration of legislation submitted under this Act. Terminates the Commission 90 days after submission of its report. Authorizes appropriations.
Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996 - Requires each Federal agency to: (1) implement and maintain financial management systems that comply with Federal requirements, Federal accounting standards, and the US Government Standard General Ledger at the transaction level. And (2) give priority in funding and provide sufficient resources to implement this Act. Requires: (1) audit reporting of whether an agency's financial management systems comply with requirements. (2) compliance determination by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), acting through the Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management. And (3) if there is noncompliance with the standards, a remediation plan. Sets forth a limitation on the time period for bringing the agency's financial management systems into compliance. Allows the transfer of up to two percent of agency funds for priority financial management system improvements for an agency with a remediation plan. Requires a report by the Director of OMB if an agency fails to bring its financial management systems into compliance within the specified time period. Directs the: (1) Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House, jointly, to study and submit a report to the Congress on how the Congress and the legislative branch may achieve compliance. And (2) Chief Justice of the United States to study and submit a report to the Congress on how the judiciary may achieve such compliance. Sets forth: (1) reporting requirements, (2) conforming amendments, (3) definitions, and (4) the effective date.
Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), at the request of the sponsor of a drug, to expedite the drug's development and review if: (1) it is intended, either alone or in combination, to treat a serious life-threatening disease or condition. And (2) preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. Authorizes the drug's sponsor to request the Secretary to designate the drug as a breakthrough therapy. Requires the Secretary, within 60 days of such request, to determine whether the drug meets such criteria and, if so, make such designation, followed by appropriate actions to expedite its development and review for approval. Requires an annual report from the Secretary to Congress on drugs for which breakthrough designations were requested and approved. Directs the Secretary to issue guidance on implementing requirements with respect to breakthrough therapies and to amend promulgated regulations. Requires the Comptroller General to assess the manner by which the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has applied the processes established by this Act and their impact on the development and timely availability of innovative treatments for patients affected by serious or life-threatening conditions.
Kids First Research Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to terminate: (1) the taxpayer election to designate $3 of income tax liability for financing of presidential election campaigns, (2) the Presidential Election Campaign Fund, and (3) the Presidential Primary Matching Payment Account. Redesignates the Presidential Election Campaign Fund as the 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund. Makes amounts in the Fund available only for allocation to national research institutes and national centers through the Common Fund for making grants for pediatric research under this Act. Requires deposit into the Treasury general fund of any amounts in the Pediatric Research Initiative Fund that remain unobligated on October 1, 2024. Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), through the Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives, to allocate funds appropriated under this Act to the national research institutes and national centers for making grants for pediatric research representing important areas of emerging scientific opportunities, rising public health challenges, or knowledge gaps that deserve special emphasis and would benefit from conducting or supporting additional research that involves collaboration between two or more national research institutes or national centers, or would otherwise benefit from strategic coordination and planning. Authorizes $13 million out of the 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund for each of FY2014-FY2023 for pediatric research through the Common Fund. Requires such funds to supplement, not supplant, funds otherwise allocated by NIH for pediatric research. Prohibits the use of such amounts for any purpose other than making grants for pediatric research described in this Act. Requires the Director of NIH, before continuing any health economics research grant, project, or activity, to report to Congress on the justification for such research, including the reason for giving it priority over research on pediatric diseases and disorders. Prohibits the Director from initiating any health economics research grant, project, or activity until the Director has submitted the report outlining the justification and a federal law has been enacted authorizing NIH to use funding specifically for health economics research.
Informed P2P User Act - Makes it unlawful for any commercial entity that developed a file sharing program or distributed such a program to install, make available for installation, or download a file sharing program without: (1) immediately before program installation or downloading, providing conspicuous notice that the program allows files to be searched and copied by one or more other computers and obtaining informed consent to the installation from an owner. And (2) immediately before initial activation of a file sharing function of the program, providing conspicuous notice of which files will be made available and obtaining the owner's informed consent. Exempts: (1) modifications or upgrades of a program that was originally installed in compliance with this Act, provided certain requirements are met. And (2) pre-installed software. Makes it unlawful for such an entity to prevent the reasonable efforts of an owner or authorized user to block the installation of such a program or to prevent such a user from having a reasonable way to disable or remove the program. Treats a violation of this Act as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice prescribed under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Prohibits construing this Act to limit or supersede any other federal or state law. Defines protected computer to include a computer used by a financial institution or the federal government or which is used in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce or communication, including a computer located outside the United States that is used in a way that affects US interstate or foreign commerce. Makes this Act inapplicable to the federal or any state government or subdivision.
Pension Protection and Diversification Act of 2001 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to: (1) limit to 20 percent the portion of funds which may be invested in the employer's stock and real property by an employee's individual account plans under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. And (2) allow an employee to direct the plan to divest the employee's account of such employer securities or property and to reinvest an equal amount in other assets, at any time after 90 days following allocation of employer securities or real property to the employee's individual account plan. Exempts employee stock ownership plans (ESOPS) from these new ERISA provisions. Amends Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow employees to diversify assets in ESOPS after five years, and after they've reached age 35. And (2) reduce by 50 percent the allowable deduction for employer matching contributions to defined contribution plans made in employer securities.
Smart Water Management Conservation and Efficiency Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to establish and carry out a smart water management pilot program to award grants to three to five eligible entities to demonstrate and deploy novel and innovative technology-based solutions that will: (1) increase the energy and water efficiency of drinking water, wastewater treatment, and water reuse systems. (2) improve such systems to help communities make significant progress in conserving water, saving energy, and reducing costs. And (3) support the implementation of innovative processes and the installation of advanced automated systems that provide real-time data on energy and water. Directs the Secretary, in selecting grant recipient, to consider: energy and cost savings, the novelty of the technology to be used. The degree to which the project integrates next-generation sensors, software, analytics, and management tools. The anticipated cost-effectiveness of the pilot project in terms of energy efficiency savings, water savings or reuse, and infrastructure costs averted. Whether the technology can be deployed in a variety of geographic regions and the degree to which the technology can be implemented on a smaller or larger scale. And whether the project will be completed in five years or less. Requires the Secretary to evaluate, annually, each project for which a grant is provided and make best practices identified available to the public.
Transfers administrative jurisdiction over specified lands in the State of Washington from: (1) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, to the Secretary of Energy. And (2) the Secretary of Energy to the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management. Withdraws such lands from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the mining and mineral leasing law. Sets forth: (1) reservations of such lands in connection with the Hanford project of the Department of Energy. And (2) authorities and disposal requirements under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 with respect to the lands transferred to the Secretary of Energy.
Managed Care Plan Accountability Act of 1997 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) with respect to accountability for violations of requirements for managed care group health plans, especially failure to provide health benefits due to improper cost-driven delivery policy decisions. Imposes joint and several liability for actual damages, and, in the court's discretion, for punitive damages, on a group health plan, or a plan health insurance issuer, for failure to provide a benefit in accordance with plan terms, insofar as such failure occurs pursuant to a clinically or medically inappropriate decision or determination resulting from application of any cost containment technique, related utilization review, or any other medical care delivery policy decision which restricts the ability of medical care providers to use their full discretion for treatment of patients. Provides for an action for damages in either a State or Federal court. Requires managed care group health plans to provide for full indemnification of medical care providers bound by plan restrictions for any liability incurred for such a failure if it is the direct result of a plan restriction on medical communications. Amends the IRC to establish an excise tax for such cost-driven violations of plan terms.
Includes within required formulary information: (1) the extent of therapeutic substitution. (2) a complete list of all drugs included in the formulary, (3) information on access to nonformulary drugs. (4) whether or not, and to what extent, coverage will exist for nonformulary drugs, (5) copayments or other cost-sharing for formulary drugs. And (6) limits on coverage payments for outpatient formulary and nonformulary drugs. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require its authorized health insurance issuers and any MedicareChoice organization to comply with such notification requirements in the same manner that such requirements apply to health insurance coverage or issuers in connection with a group plan. Requires the coordination of notification and formulary requirements through an interagency memorandum of understanding among the Secretaries of Labor, the Treasury, and Health and Human Services.
Off-Reservation Land Acquisition Guidance Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to consider anticipated tribal benefits and applicable state and local government concerns before taking off-reservation land into trust for Indian tribes. Defines off-reservation land as land that is beyond a reasonable commuting distance from the applicable tribe's reservation and likely to be used for gaming. Requires an Indian tribe requesting that such land be taken into trust for the tribe to disclose and submit to the Secretary: (1) any plan, contract, agreement, or other information relating to the use, or intended use, of such land by the tribe. (2) a request for a written opinion from the Office of Indian Gaming that the land is eligible for gaming. And (3) any other information the Secretary requires in rendering a decision. Requires a tribe's proposed use of the land to be compatible with state and local planning and zoning, and public health and safety requirements. Directs the Secretary to promulgate regulations to carry out this Act before approving any application to take off-reservation land into trust for Indian tribes.
End Tax Uncertainty Act of 2010 - Makes permanent: (1) the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001. (2) provisions of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 that reduce income tax rates on dividend and capital gains income. And (3) the repeal, after December 31, 2010, of the estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer tax. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) provide for annual increases, between 2010 and 2020, in the amount of the alternative minimum tax (AMT) exemption amount for single and married taxpayers. (2) allow a permanent offset against the AMT for certain nonrefundable tax credits. And (3) reduce to 25 the maximum income tax rate for corporations, including personal service corporations.
Land and National Park Deferred Maintenance Act or the LAND Act This bill extends the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) through FY2024. From the amounts deposited into the LWCF, $450 million shall be available in each fiscal year for expenditure to carry out the purposes of the Act establishing the LWCF and the purposes of the LWCF. Remaining amounts in the LWCF shall be available subject to appropriations. The bill specifies the use of amounts for federal purposes for certain land and water acquisitions and financial assistance to states for LWCF purposes and outdoor recreation, the Forest Legacy Program, cooperative endangered species grants, and the American Battlefield Protection Program. The President must submit to Congress, as part of the annual budget submission, the account, program, and project allocations for funds that are made available from the LWCF for federal purposes. The bill prohibits the use of any funding made available to a state under this bill from being used for the acquisition of lands, waters, or interests in lands or waters by eminent domain. At least 1.5 of appropriated or expended LWCF funds must be available for projects that secure recreational public access to existing federal public land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes. The bill establishes a National Park Service and Related Agencies Maintenance and Revitalization Conservation Fund in the Treasury for the deposit through FY2024 of $450 million from mineral revenues that are not otherwise credited, covered, or deposited under federal law. Of amounts made available from this fund, the Department of the Interior shall use specified amounts for high priority deferred maintenance needs that support critical infrastructure and visitor services. The Department of Agriculture shall use a specified amount for federal lands administered by the Forest Service for such high priority deferred maintenance needs.
Crime Victims with Disabilities Act of 2006 - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to authorize the Attorney General to make grants to states, local governments, Indian tribes, or tribal organizations to plan and implement programs for collaboration among criminal justice agencies, adult protective services agencies, crime victim assistance organizations, andor other agencies or organizations that provide services to individuals with disabilities to investigate and remediate abuse of or crimes against such individuals and to provide services to such individuals. Authorizes the Attorney General to establish a national center to evaluate such programs.
Librarian Education and Development Act of 2003 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to provide for certain types of student loan forgiveness for librarians in low-income areas where public schools have a combined average of 30 percent or more of their total student enrollments composed of children counted as disadvantaged under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
Freedom and Human Rights for the Enclaved People of Cyprus Act - Directs the President to establish US efforts to: (1) inform the United Nations, foreign governments, and appropriate Federal departments and agencies of the freedom and human rights restrictions on the enclaved people of Cyprus. (2) enlist the United Nations and foreign governments in efforts to end such restrictions. (3) establish US Government programs of assistance to the people of Cyprus and efforts for the elimination of the restrictions. And (4) use funds allocated to the government or ethnic community participating in the imposition of such restrictions on the promotion of freedom and human rights for the people of Cyprus, or in the absence of such funds, establish a foreign assistance program for them. Requires the President to direct the US representative to the United Nations to: (1) urge the U. N. High Commissioner for Refugees to address and solve the plight of those enclaved on Cyprus. And (2) call upon the U. N. Human Rights Commissioner to investigate their plight and implement appropriate corrective action.
United States Employee Ownership Bank Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish the United States Employee Ownership Bank in order to foster increased employee ownership and participation in company decision-making throughout the United States. Lists among the Bank's duties providing loans to enable employees to purchase a business through an employee stock ownership plan or eligible worker-owned cooperative that is at least 51 percent employee-owned. States that such loans are subordinated to the interests of all other creditors, loan guarantees, and technical assistance programs. Amends the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 to provide that in assessing and taking into account the record of a financial institution, the appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency may consider as a factor capital investments, loans, loan participation, technical assistance, financial advice, grants, and other ventures undertaken by the institution to support or enable manufacturing employees to establish employee stock ownership plans or eligible worker owned cooperatives that are at least 51 percent employee-owned plans or cooperatives.
Assigns circuit judges of the former ninth circuit to either of the two new circuits based upon their official station, with senior judges permitted election of assignment.
Air Line Pension Act of 2003 - Sets forth special funding requirements for certain pension plans maintained by commercial passenger air carriers (plans), notwithstanding any contrary provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Provides for such plans, if they have a funded percentage of less than 80 percent as of January 1, 2003, the following: (1) modifications of funding rules, including funded percentage, assumed interest rate for determining current liability, and estimation of current liability. (2) a moratorium on the deficit reduction contribution, under specified conditions, (3) a one-time amortization of 2008 unfunded current liability. And (4) recognition of a waiver in the deficit reduction contribution. Provides for such plans, if they are maintained for benefit of the carrier's employees pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement and if they terminated during calendar year 2003, the following: (1) restoration by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to the plan's pre-termination status and transfer of control of plan assets and liabilities to the employer, unless the collective bargaining agreement provides that the plan should not be restored. (2) exclusion of any expected increase in current liability due to benefits accruing during each plan year, (3) amortization of unfunded amounts under the restoration payment schedule. (4) inapplicability of certain contribution requirements to a restored plan until a plan year beginning on the initial post-restoration valuation date, with modified required annual payments. And (5) resetting of funding standard account balances. Limits PBGC liability with respect to certain plans under this Act.
Medicare Established Provider Act of 2015 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a system for designating providers that represent a low risk of submitting fraudulent Medicare claims as established providers for purposes of applying for special treatment in the claim review process. To qualify as an established provider, a provider must demonstrate that, within a specified timeframe: (1) at least 90 of Medicare claims submitted by the provider were determined to be eligible for full or partial payment, and (2) the provider appealed at least 90 of all Medicare claimsnbsp. That were not initially determined to be eligible for payment. HHS may withhold payment for a Medicare claim made by an established providernbsp, only if anbsp. Final determination has been made that the claim is ineligible for payment. If such a final determination is made, the provider shall repay such payment electronically and within a specified timeframe.
Supplemental Appropriations Act for the International Monetary Fund - Makes supplemental appropriations to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for FY 1998 for: (1) loans to the IMF under the New Arrangements to Borrow. And (2) an increase in the US IMF quota of Special Drawing Rights. Authorizes the use for the New Arrangements to Borrow of a specified amount of previously appropriated IMF Special Drawing Rights for the General Arrangements to Borrow. Prohibits funds appropriated for the US IMF quota from being obligated, transferred, or made available to the IMF until 30 days after the Secretary of the Treasury certifies, to the appropriate congressional committees, that the IMF Board of Executive Directors have agreed by resolution that stand-by agreements or other arrangements regarding the use of IMF resources shall include provisions requiring a borrower to: (1) comply with the terms of all of its international trade obligations and agreements. (2) eliminate the practice of government directed lending or provision of subsidies to favored industries, enterprises, parties, or institutions. And (3) guarantee non-discriminatory treatment in debt resolution proceedings between domestic and foreign creditors, and for debtors and other concerned persons. Directs the Secretary to certify to the appropriate congressional committees that the IMF Board has agreed to provide timely access (transparency) by the Comptroller General to information and documents relating to IMF operations, program and policy reviews, and decisions regarding stand-by agreements and other uses of its resources. Requires the Secretary to direct, and the IMF US Executive Director to agree, to provide access by the Comptroller General to IMF documents, information, and operations. Directs the President to establish an International Financial Institution Advisory Commission, which shall report to the appropriate congressional committees on the implications of consolidating the activities of the IMF, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development , and the World Trade Organization (WTO). Directs the President to call for a Bretton Woods Conference of representatives of the governments of the member countries of the IMF, the World Bank, and the WTO to consider the structure and activities of such institutions, their possible merger, and their capacity to contribute to exchange rate stability and economic growth, and to respond effectively to financial crises. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury, following extension of a stand-by agreement or other uses of resources by the IMF, to report to the appropriate congressional committees specified information about: (1) borrower's rules and regulations. (2) the burden shared by private sector investors and creditors, including commercial banks in the Group of Seven Nations, in the losses which have prompted the use of IMF resources. (3) IMF strategy, plan and timetable for completing the borrower's pay back of IMF resources. And (4) the status of efforts to upgrade the borrower's national standards to meet the Basle Committee's Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision. Directs the Secretary, before the release of IMF funds to a borrower country, to certify to the appropriate congressional committees that certain conditions have been met, including: (1) no IMF resources have resulted, directly or indirectly, in support of the Korean semiconductor, steel, automobile, or textile and apparel industries. (2) neither the Korean Government nor the IMF has guaranteed or underwritten the private loans of such Korean industries. And (3) IMF and Department of the Treasury officials have monitored the implementation of the Corporate Governance provisions of the Republic of Korea's stabilization program of December 4, 1997, and all of the conditions have either been met, or the Korean Government has committed itself to fulfill these conditions according to an approved timetable for completion.
Trade and Environment Enforcement Act or Green 301 Act - Amends the Trade Act of 1974 to authorize the US Trade Representative (USTR) to take certain discretionary trade action against foreign countries that engage in unreasonable acts, policies, or practices that fail to enforce their environmental laws effectively. Directs the USTR to identify foreign country trade practices that affect negatively the environment of the United States, the foreign country, a third country, or internationally.
Choice in Welfare Tax Credit Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to permit an individual income tax credit of up to $100 of the value of certain charitable contributions to any tax-exempt, US organization that spends at least 70 percent of aggregate expenditures assisting the poor. Requires that: (1) taxpayers identify each such contribution and the recipient on the individual's tax return. And (2) such charities provide copies of their annual return to such individuals upon request.
Rural Methamphetamine Use Response Act of 1999 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit to specified congressional committees an annual report on the problems caused by methamphetamine consumption in rural areas, small cities, and mid-size cities. Authorizes appropriations for the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) for each fiscal year after FY 1999. Makes sums appropriated available to the DEA for activities to alleviate the growing financial burden on rural communities, small cities, mid-size cities, and other communities resulting from the cleanup of clandestine laboratories and other drug related hazardous waste. Requires the Administrator of the DEA to establish within the DEA a select cadre of special agents with Spanish language capabilities who show work with State and local law enforcement agencies across the United States on matters relating to the combating of methamphetamine related drug trafficking. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Administrator to establish within the DEA four regional satellite training centers for purposes of providing clandestine laboratory training to Federal, State, and local law enforcement personnel, to establish such centers at appropriate locations throughout the United States, and to assign to such centers 12 special agents, four drug prevention specialists, and eight support personnel, as appropriate. Requires the drug prevention specialists to work with communities that have been previously assisted by the DEA's Mobile Enforcement and Regional Enforcement Teams to assist such communities in the development of drug prevention programs and coalitions and provide a solid foundation for the long-term elimination of drug trafficking, abuse, and violence in such communities. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Administrator to establish: (1) Advanced Clandestine Laboratory Investigations schools for State and local law enforcement personnel. (2) Additional Basic Clandestine Laboratory Certification schools for both DEA and State and local law enforcement personnel. And (3) a Train the Trainer program to provide State and local law enforcement personnel with the skills necessary to provide clandestine laboratory re-certification and awareness training to other law enforcement personnel within their jurisdictions. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Attorney General to submit to the Committees annually a report containing a detailed strategy to combat the problem of methamphetamine production and abuse in the United States. Amends of the Controlled Substances Act to prohibit the theft and transportation across State lines of stolen anhydrous ammonia. Directs the Administrator to seek to enter into an agreement with Iowa State University to permit the University to continue and expand its current research into the development of inert agents that, when added to anhydrous ammonia, eliminate the usefulness of anhydrous ammonia as an ingredient in the production of methamphetamine. Allows such agreement to provide for the provision to such University, on a reimbursable basis, of $500,000. Authorizes appropriations for the DEA for FY 2000.
Open Fuel Standard Act of 2009 or the OFS Act - Requires each light-duty automobile manufacturer's annual covered inventory to comprise at least: (1) 50 fuel choice-enabling automobiles in years 2012-2014. And (2) 80 fuel choice-enabling automobiles in 2015, and in each subsequent year. Defines fuel choice-enabling automobile as: (1) a flexible fuel automobile capable of operating on gasoline, E85, and M85. Or (2) an automobile capable of operating on biodiesel fuel. Authorizes a manufacturer to request an exemption from such requirement from the Secretary of Transportation. Extends limited liability protection to the use of fuel containing ethanol or renewable fuel in the operation of internal combustion engines by declaring that such fuel shall not be deemed to be a defective product or subject to a failure to warn due to such ethanol or renewable fuel content, unless it violates a control or prohibition imposed under the Clean Air Act.
Mammogram Availability Act of 1999 - Amends the Public Health Service Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to require a group health plan, and a health insurance issuer offering group coverage, that provides coverage for diagnostic mammographies for any woman 40 years old or older to provide coverage for annual screening mammographies for such a woman. Prohibits related enrollment and renewal discrimination, monetary incentives to women, and penalties or incentives to providers. Amends the Public Health Service Act to apply those requirements and prohibitions to coverage offered by an issuer in the individual market.
Police Gun Buyback Assistance Act - Authorizes the Attorney General to make grants to assist eligible States or units of local government in: (1) purchasing new firearms without transferring decommissioned firearms to any person, and (2) destroying decommissioned firearms.
Veterans Benefits Administration Improvement Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit to the congressional veterans' committees, the Senate Majority Leader, and the Speaker of the House a comprehensive plan for the improvement of the processing of claims for veterans' compensation and pension. Requires such plan to include the training of claims adjudicators and the enhancement of accountability standards to improve the timeliness and accuracy of such claims processing. Allows for plan modifications, but requires prior notification to the entities followed by a 30-day waiting period. Provides plan funding.
School-Based Respiratory Health Management Act This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to revise the conditions under which the Department of Health and Human Services, in making asthma-related grants, gives preference to a state. A preference is given to states that require elementary and secondary schools to have: (1) on the premises during operating hours at least one individual trained in the administration of rescue medications for allergies and reversible lower airway disorders, and (2) an allergies and reversible lower airway disorders management program. Currently, this preference is given to states that require schools to have on the premises an individual trained in the administration of epinephrine to a student having a severe allergic reaction. To be eligible for this preference, a state must have civil liability protections for trained individuals who administer rescue medications for allergies and reversible lower airway disorders.
Requires the Attorney General to publicly disclose, in anbsp, manner consistent with national security,nbsp. Any decision of a court established by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA) that surveillance activities conducted by the US government have violated a particular US law or constitutional provision. Requires the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to provide information on surveillance activities to Congress, including information regarding: (1) whether the National Security Agency (NSA) or any other element of the intelligence community has ever collected, or made plans to collect, the cell-site location information of a large number of US persons with no known connection to suspicious activity. (2) the type and amount of evidence the DNI believes is required to permit the collectionnbsp, of cell-site information for intelligence purposes. (3) whether NSA or any other element of the intelligence community has ever conducted a warrantless search of a collection of communications in an effort to find the communications of a particular US person and, if so, the number of such searches or an estimate of such number. (4) when the US government first began relying on authorities under FISA to justify the collection of records with no known connection to suspicious activity. (5) whether representations made to the US Supreme Court by the Department of Justice (DOJ) in the case of Clapper v. Amnesty International USA accurately described the use of authorities under FISA by the government, which of such representations, if any, were inaccurate, and how such representations have been corrected. And (6) FISA court opinions that identified violations of the law, the Constitution, or FISA court orders relating to the collection of information under FISA. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO), in consultation with the US International Trade Commission, to conduct an assessment of the economic impact, including the impact on the ability of US communication service providers to compete in foreign markets, of bulk collection and surveillance programs conducted under FISA, and to report to Congress on such assessment.
Hiring Heroes Tax Incentive Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow employers a tax credit for up to 15 of the first $10,000 of wages paid to a Ready Reserve-National Guard employee or a recently-separated veteran . Terminates such credit after 2012.
Declares that the Force should have a mission statement that: (1) specifies when it will engage in operations, including when the Security Council determines that an imminent threat to the peace requires a preventive deployment or that ongoing gross violations of human rights or breaches of the peace require rapid intervention. (2) provides that the Force will consist of not more than 6,000 volunteers from UN member nations who will be deployed only by Security Council resolution. (3) provides that the Force will be organized as a sub-department within the UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations or under the control of the UN's Military Staff Committee, (4) limits Force deployment to a maximum of six months. And (5) requires its basing and infrastructure service to be leased from existing member nations' institutions.
Worker-Executive Parity Act of 2009 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), in instances where a single-employer defined benefit pension plan is subject to certain funding-based limits on benefits and benefit accruals under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, to prohibit: (1) the accrual of deferred compensation to a disqualified individual pursuant to a covered deferred executive compensation arrangement during a plan year. And (2) the distribution of accrued deferred compensation to such individual during a plan year when such arrangements are established during or after the one-year period preceding the plan year.
Men and Families Health Care Act of 2009 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the Office of Men's Health. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Office, to: (1) conduct, support, coordinate, and promote programs and activities to improve the state of men's health in the United States. And (2) provide for consultation among HHS agencies and offices to coordinate men's health programs and activities and establish a clinical registries database to assess and measure quality improvement of programs and activities relating to men's health.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on January 12, 2018. Satisfying Energy Needs and Saving the Environment Act or the SENSE Act This bill eases emission limits for hazardous air pollutants from electric utility steam generating units that convert coal refuse into energy. The Environmental Protection Agency must allow utilities to select a standard for either hydrogen chloride or sulfur dioxide with which to comply from a list of specified standards.
Regulatory Oversight Act of 1995 - Provides for a review by the Congress of rules promulgated by Federal agencies, before such rules take effect as final rules. Requires Federal agencies to submit rules and reports on them, including any cost-benefit analyses, to the Congress. Allows the Congress to stop final implementation of significant rules through a joint resolution of disapproval . Defines a significant rule as any rule that may have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities.
Obamacare Marriage Penalty Elimination Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax credit for health care insurance premium assistance, to: (1) calculate the amount of such credit in the case of a joint tax return as the sum of each credit amount allowed to each spouse, thusnbsp, preventing the tax effect known as the marriage penalty. And (2) replace the 400 poverty line eligibility limit for such credit with an applicable percentage based on a calculation of the combination of increased tax revenues and decreased outlays resulting from this Act.
Volunteer Emergency Services Recruitment and Retention Act of 2006 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow sponsors of certain deferred compensation plans to elect to include length of service award plans for bona fide volunteers providing fire fighting and prevention services, emergency medical services, and emergency rescue services. Directs the Secretary of Labor to issue regulations exempting a length of service award program from treatment as an employee pension benefit plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
Private Security Officer Quality Assurance Act of 1997 - Directs the Attorney General (AG) to designate an association of employers of private security officers, which must submit to the AG, at the request of an employer of officers, fingerprints or other methods of positive identification for background checks of such officers. Allows an employer to seek authorization from its employees for a background check. Directs the AG, upon receipt of fingerprints from an association, to: (1) search records of the Interstate Information Index of the National Crime Information Center and the Identification Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. And (2) provide any corresponding identification and criminal history records to the requesting association. Authorizes the AG to prescribe regulations to carry out this Act, including measures relating to the imposition of fees necessary for the recovery of costs. Directs the AG to report to specified congressional committees two years after enactment of this Act on the number of inquiries made by the association of employers and their disposition. Establishes criminal penalties for misuse of such background check information. Provides that employers shall not be held liable in any action for damages based on employment determinations that rely on such criminal history information from the AG. Authorizes the AG to collect a user fee for a request, under any applicable law, for an individual's criminal history information.
Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to provide a grant to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to undertake the restoration of Washington Square in accordance with the standards established to facilitate its inclusion in Independence National Historical Park and upon the entrance by the city into a memorandum of understanding with the Secretary concerning the long-term lease and administration of the Square. Requires such standards to provide for the use of the most cost-efficient design and materials that are consistent with the historical values of the Square and suitable for inclusion in the Park. Prohibits such grant from being used to fund more than 66.6 percent of the costs of such restoration. Requires Federal funds, other than those authorized to be appropriated under this Act, that are appropriated for the purpose of restoring the Square, to be used to offset any funds made available to the National Park Service pursuant to this Act. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1995. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) enter into an agreement with Philadelphia for the lease of the restored Square to the Service in an amount not to exceed one dollar per year. (2) acquire such Square or an interest in it by donation, (3) modify the Park's boundaries to include the Square. And (4) provide for the administration of the Square as part of the Park. Requires Philadelphia to provide, without cost to the Government, services for the Square with respect to electricity, natural gas, water and sewer, curbside garbage collection of bagged trash or receipt of hauled trash at a city collection point, and police services comparable to those provided in the surrounding community.
Internet Tax Freedom Act - Prohibits a State or local government from imposing, assessing, or attempting to collect any tax or fee on the Internet or interactive computer services (ICs) or on their use. Preserves State and local taxing authority with respect to income, license, and sales taxes. Directs the Secretaries of the Treasury, Commerce, or State to: (1) undertake an examination of US and international taxation of the Internet and ICs, as well as commerce conducted thereon. And (2) jointly submit to the President appropriate policy recommendations concerning such taxation. Directs the President to transmit to the appropriate congressional committees policy recommendations on the taxation of sales and other transactions effected on the Internet or through ICs. Requires all such recommendations to be consistent with policy statements of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to state that the Federal Communications Commission or any equivalent State commission shall have no regulatory authority or jurisdiction with respect to charges paid by subscribers for ICs or information services transmitted through the Internet, except for the requirement that such services be provided at affordable rates to rural health care providers, schools, and libraries. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should seek bilateral and multilateral agreements through various international forums to establish that activity on the Internet and ICs be free from tariff and taxation.
Years of African-American History Commission Act This bill establishes the 400 Years of African-American History Commission to develop and carry out activities throughout the United States to commemorate the 400th anniversary of the arrival of Africans in the English colonies at Point Comfort, Virginia, in 1619. The commission must: plan programs to acknowledge the impact that slavery and laws that enforced racial discrimination had on the United States. Encourage civic, patriotic, historical, educational, artistic, religious, and economic organizations to organize and participate in anniversary activities, assist states, localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the commemoration. And coordinate for the public scholarly research on the arrival of Africans in the United States and their contributions to this country. The commission may provide: (1) grants to communities and nonprofit organizations for the development of programs. (2) grants to research and scholarly organizations to research, publish, or distribute information relating to the arrival of Africans in the United States. And (3) technical assistance to states, localities, and nonprofit organizations to further the commemoration. The commission must prepare a strategic plan and submit a final report to Congress that contains a summary of its activities, an accounting of its received and expended funds, and its recommendations. The commission shall terminate on July 1, 2020.
Grand Jury Reform Act of 1998 - Amends rule 6 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure to direct the court, upon impaneling a grand jury, to instruct and charge it on the rights, responsibilities, and duties of the grand jury. Grants the court the authority to investigate violations under such rule, including the authority to appoint counsel to investigate and report to the court regarding violations. Directs that a witness subpoenaed to testify or produce information at any proceeding before a grand jury impaneled before a district court be given reasonable notice of: (1) the right to counsel, (2) privilege against self-incrimination, (3) the subject matter of the investigation, (4) whether the juror's conduct is under investigation. (5) the criminal statute the violation of which is under consideration. And (6) rights regarding immunity. Allows the assistance of counsel for each witness subpoenaed to appear and testify, or to produce documents or other objects, before a grand jury in a district court during such time as the witness is questioned in the grand jury room. Provides for the appointment of counsel in the case of a witness who is determined by the court to be financially unable to obtain counsel. Sets forth provisions regarding powers and duties of counsel, powers of the court, required disclosure of exculpatory evidence, and availability of grand jury transcripts and other statements.
Requires the Federal reserve banks to transfer specified surplus funds to the Board for transfer to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the general fund of the Treasury for FY 2001 through 2005. Prohibits replenishment of the surplus fund during the fiscal year for which such transfer is made. Mandates that each insured depository institution make available to consumers a consumer transaction account to be known as an affordable transaction account. Sets forth operational parameters to be prescribed by the Board.
Continuity of Congress Act of 2003 - Authorizes the legislature of each State to enact laws declaring who shall serve in the place of members of the House of Representatives andor the Senate in the event that one-fourth of either or both Houses of Congress are killed or incapacitated.
Expanding International Education for All Act - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to revise title VI . Revises part A with respect to incentive grants for the creation of undergraduate international studies and foreign language programs. Allows graduate schools, along with baccalaureate degree granting institutions and community and junior colleges of higher education, to be included as part of a consortium that serves undergraduates and is eligible for a grant. Revises the Federal and non-Federal shares of the cost of planning and establishing at the undergraduate level: (1) a foreign language program, (2) an international studies program. Or (3) a business and international education program. Revises allowable uses of grant funds to include: (1) acquisition of research and instructional materials. (2) establishment of a network with other institutions of higher education and resource centers focused on strengthening foreign language study and international studies programs. (3) development of new opportunities for learning foreign languages, including the less commonly taught languages. (4) international education programs designed to develop or enhance linkages between two- to four-year institutions of higher education, or baccalaureate and postbaccalaureate programs or institutions. (5) in-service and faculty development activities designed to strengthen instruction and research capacity of the institution. And (6) faculty travel in foreign areas, regions, and countries. Establishes certain grant conditions. Establishes, under part A, a program of discretionary grants for technological innovation and cooperation for foreign information access. Revises part C with respect to the non-Federal share and source of funds for minority foreign service professional development. Directs the Institute to make institutional development grants to strengthen international affairs programs at Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-serving institutions, Tribally Controlled Indian Community Colleges, and minority institutions. Revises the Institute's share of the cost of the junior year program. Authorizes the Institute to carry out a summer abroad program. Directs the Institute to enter into agreements with specified types of institutions of higher education to conduct postbaccalaureate internships in Washington, D. C. with work experience to assist the students to prepare for a Master's degree program. Requires such internship program to be carried out with the assistance of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Program. Establishes in the executive branch an Interagency Committee on Minority Careers in International Affairs to: (1) advise the Secretary and the Institute on part C programs. And (2) promote policies in furtherance of part C objectives in each participating department and agency. Extends through FY 2003 the authorization of appropriations for part C.
Ports-to-Forts Act of 2012 - Directs the Administrator of the Maritime Administration to make grants to states or port authorities to cover the direct or indirect costs for repair or construction of: (1) commercial strategic seaports. Or (2) bridges, roads, rail systems, and other infrastructure near such seaports.
Amends the District of Columbia code to make the Mayor of the District of Columbia the Commander-in-Chief of the militia of the District with jurisdiction over: (1) the reserve corps, (2) the appointment of commissioned officers, (3) the call for duty, and (4) general courts-martial.
Foreign Counterfeit Merchandise Prevention Act - Amends the federal criminal code to provide that it shall not be a violation of the prohibition against a federal employee disclosing trade secrets or other confidential or proprietary information for an officer or employee of US Customs and Border Protection (CBP): (1) at the time that merchandise is presented for examination and thereafter, to provide the owner of a copyright or a registered mark or any person who may be injured by a circumvention of copyright protection systems with any information appearing on the merchandise, including its retail packaging, or a sample or image of such merchandise and its retail packaging, for the purposes of determining whether the merchandise or its packaging infringes the copyright, bears or consists of a counterfeit mark of the registered mark, or is a violation of copyright protection systems. Or (2) after seizing merchandise determined to be in violation of copyright protection systems, to provide certain information to persons injured by such violation, including the date of importation, the port of entry, a description of the merchandise, the country of origin of the merchandise, the names and addresses of the foreign manufacturer, the exporter, and the importer, and a photographic or digital image of the merchandise. Applies such exemption only with respect to tangible goods presented to the CBP for importation into, or exportation from, the United States. Amends the Lanham Act to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to record and transmit to customs officers any contact information, documentation of the locality in which goods were manufactured, and copies of trademark registrations furnished by domestic or eligible foreign manufacturers or traders for the purpose of aiding the enforcement of a prohibition on the importation of goods bearing infringing marks or names. Requires the Secretary, if the CBP detains critical merchandise bearing a DHS-recorded registered trademark, to provide the trademark owner any information on such critical merchandise and its packaging and labels, including, without redaction, photographs or digital images, packaging, and labels. Permits the Secretary, subject to any bonding and return requirements, to provide the owner samples of the critical merchandise without redaction. Defines critical merchandise to include: (1) aircraft engines, appliances, propellers, and spare parts. (2) children's sleepwear, cosmetics, devices, drugs, food, motor vehicle equipment, pesticide chemicals, semiconductors, and tobacco products. (3) items on the US Munitions List established under specified provisions of the Arms Export Control Act. And (4) any other article of manufacture that the Secretary determines could, if permitted entry into the United States in violation of the US laws, pose a danger to the health, safety, or welfare of consumers, or to the national security of the United States. Applies such Lanham Act amendments only with respect to tangible goods presented to the CBP for importation into the United States.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish credits for the use of clean-fuel vehicles by businesses within empowerment zones, enterprise communities, and renewal communities.
Safe Schools Improvement Act of 2017 This bill amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to require states to direct their local educational agencies (LEAs) to establish policies that prevent and prohibit conduct, including bullying and harassment, that is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive to: (1) limit students' ability to participate in, or benefit from, school programs. Or (2) create a hostile or abusive educational environment that adversely affectsnbsp. Students' education. LEAs shall also provide: (1) students, parents, and educational professionals with annual notice of the conduct prohibited in their disciplinary policies. (2) students and parents with grievance procedures that target such conduct. And (3) the public with annual data on the incidence and frequency of that conduct at the school and LEA level. The Departmentnbsp. Of Education must conduct, and report on, an independent biennial evaluation of programs and policies to combat bullying and harassment in elementary and secondary schools. The National Center for Education Statistics shall collect state data to determine the incidence and frequency of the conduct prohibited by LEA disciplinary policies.
Transnational Criminal Organization Illicit Spotter Prevention and Elimination Act This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit: (1) transmitting to another person the location, movement, or activities of law enforcement agents while intending to further a federal crime relating to US immigration. (2) destroying, altering, or damaging any physical or electronic device used by the federal government to control the border or any port of entry. Or (3) carrying or using a firearm in an alien smuggling crime.
Veterans Medicare Reimbursement Demonstration Act of 1997 - Directs the Secretaries of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Health and Human Services (HHS) to jointly carry out a demonstration project, during the three-year period beginning on January 1, 1998, under which the HHS Secretary provides the VA with reimbursement from the Medicare program for health-care services provided to targeted Medicare-eligible veterans in or through selected VA medical centers. Provides for the waiver of certain Medicare requirements in order to carry out the project. Requires the VA Secretary to establish a plan for the selection of up to 12 medical centers located in geographically dispersed locations for project participation. Requires at least one medical center selected to be in the same catchment area as a military medical facility which was closed pursuant to a defense base closure law. Requires project participation to be voluntary. Directs the VA Secretary to establish requirements for participating veterans. Authorizes the VA Secretary, in carrying out the demonstration project, to operate managed health care plans, either through the VA or public or private entities. Directs the Secretary to prescribe minimum health care benefits to be provided under such plans. Allows the Secretary to establish a managed health care plan only after: (1) reporting to the Congress a plan for the use of such centers and facilities. And (2) receiving from the VA Inspector General certain certifications relating to costs and conformity with health plan requirements. Requires project reimbursement at a rate equal to 95 percent of amounts that would otherwise be payable under the Medicare program if the facility was not a Federal facility, was participating in the project, and imposed charges for such services. Excludes certain amounts from such computation. Requires reimbursement payments periodically from Medicare trust funds, with an annual Medicare payment limit of $50 million, of which no more than $10 million may be used for the conduct of the project through managed health care plans. Requires reductions in such payments when the amount of the actual VA effort level for targeted veterans for that fiscal year is less than the amount of the VA effort level for FY 1997. Directs the Secretaries to compare the expenditures made under the project to the expenditures that would have been made for such veterans if the project had not been conducted, and to take appropriate steps if the expenditures under the Medicare program increased as a result of the project. Requires annual reports by the Comptroller General. Prohibits the VA Secretary from carrying out a demonstration project at a medical center until 30 days after reporting to the Congress on plans for the selection of appropriate centers. Requires: (1) an independent entity to conduct an ongoing project evaluation and report results to the Secretaries and appropriate congressional committees. And (2) a report from the Secretaries to the Congress on possible project extension and expansion.
Digital Television Consumer Education Act of 2007 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require through December 1, 2009: (1) retail distributors that sell or rent televisions with analog receivers, including distributors that sell by direct mail or electronic means, to prominently display a specified consumer alert respecting digital television transition information. (2) multichannel video programming distributors to include specified transition information in consumer bills. And (3) full-power commercial television broadcast licensees or permittees to report at least quarterly to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) respecting transition education efforts to consumers. Authorizes the FCC to issue civil forfeitures for violations of such requirements. Requires the FCC to establish: (1) a digital television public outreach program, including FCC website information. And (2) the DTV Working Group to consult with state and local governments, providers of low-income assistance programs, educational institutions, community groups, and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to promote consumer outreach regarding such transition and the converter-box program. Amends the Digital Television Transition and Public Safety Act of 2005 to require the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information to establish energy consumption standards applicable to digital-to-analog converter boxes in order for such boxes to qualify for certain coupon purchases. States that such standards shall be the exclusive energy consumption standards for converter boxes manufactured or imported for use in the United States on and after the effective date established by the Assistant Secretary and until January 1, 2010.
Department of Defense Overseas Educators Act - Provides for the implementation of temporary measures to facilitate reemployment in Federal agencies of Federal employees separated from teaching positions in schools for overseas Department of Defense dependents . Amends the Defense Department Overseas Teachers Pay and Personnel Practices Act to require that, in certain cases, DoDDS teachers recruited abroad be entitled to the same benefits as teachers recruited in the United States. Requires the Director of Dependents' Education to establish for DoDDS teachers a voluntary leave transfer program and a voluntary leave transfer bank program. Limits the amount of graduate or undergraduate coursework which may be taken under a recertification program for DoDDS professional personnel. Amends Federal law to provide for continued health benefits for DoDDS teachers involuntarily separated from service under a reduction in force.
Voter Outreach and Turnout Expansion Act of 2003 - Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to: (1) permit an individual to register to vote on the date of the election at each polling place in a State at which ballots are cast in an election for Federal office. And (2) require each jurisdiction in a State which administers an election for Federal office to designate early voting sites to serve as polling places for the election prior to the election date, and to permit any registered voter to cast a ballot at the site. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) many Americans do not vote on Election Day because of conflicting work schedules. (2) Federal, State, and local governments should share the responsibility for increasing voter turnout. (3) States should establish Election Day as a legal public holiday and provide full paid leave for State government employees. And (4) the treatment of Election Day in the same manner as Veterans Day for purposes of law relating to Federal employment will lead to increased voter turnout and will increase the availability of poll workers and suitable polling places. Sets out requirements for employee voting leave. Expresses the sense of Congress encouraging State and other jurisdictions to distribute sample ballots, information on voting, and other voter education materials as an aid to preventing errors by voters at the polls and reducing the rates of spoiled ballots.
Revises provisions concerning fishery endorsements for specified vessels that are either over 165 feet, more than 750 or 1,900 gross measured tons, or with more than 3,000 shaft power and that have a certificate of documentation issued for a fishery endorsement effective after September 25, 1997, and not placed under foreign registry after October 21, 1998, to also require for eligibility purposes that the vessel be either a rebuilt or replacement vessel under specified provisions of the American Fisheries Act relating to requirements for rebuilding and replacing vessels that are being revised by this Act and be otherwise eligible. Sets forth rules under such provisions of the American Fisheries Act relating to requirements for rebuilding and replacing vessels that are being revised by this Act concerning: (1) recommendations of the North Pacific Council for the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area or the Gulf of Alaska, (2) certain catcher vessels, (3) limitations on fishery endorsements. And (4) Gulf of Alaska groundfish fisheries limitations. Amends the American Fisheries Act with respect to: (1) the exemption of specified vessels. And (2) fishery allowances and the removal of a catcher vessel from the directed pollock fishery.
Home Health Documentation and Program Improvement Act of 2017 This bill requiresnbsp, the Centers for Medicare amp, Medicaid Services (CMS)nbsp, to usenbsp, an individual's medical recordnbsp. From a home-health agency, as appropriate, to support certification of such individual's Medicare eligibility fornbsp. Home-health services. The bill requires the CMS to establish a process for home-health agencies that are entitled to an administrative appeal after being denied eligibility for Medicare reimbursement to, instead, enter into a settlement with the CMS.
Wood Stove Regulatory Relief Act of 2014 - Prohibits the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), for an eight-year period, from finalizing, issuing, implementing, or enforcing rules under the Clean Air Act applicable to any new source of air pollutants that is a residential wood heater, a residential hydronic heater, a forced-air furnace, or a residential masonry heater unless the rules comply with this Act. Prohibits the Administrator from setting particulate matter emission limits below a specified threshold for adjustable rate wood heaters, single burn rate wood heaters, pellet heatersstoves, residential hydronic heaters, and forced-air furnaces. Phases in requirements for complying with emission limits. Sets forth provisions requiring third-party testing of compliance with emission limits.
Hydroelectric Licensing Process Improvement Act of 1998 - Amends the Federal Power Act to prescribe factors which Federal agency participants in Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) hydroelectric license renewal process must consider and document when setting forth conditions for such renewals, including the economic impact of such conditions as well as air quality, flood control, irrigation, navigation, and recreation and drinking water supply. Requires that each condition be subjected to appropriately substantiated scientific peer review based on current empirical data or field-tested data. Requires such consulting agency to provide a license applicant opportunity to obtain expedited administrative review of its proposed conditions before filing a FERC application. Empowers the reviewing body to remand the matter to such agency if the reviewer finds the agency's proposed conditions do not comply with this Act. Sets a one-year deadline by which a consulting agency must file its proposed licensing conditions with FERC. Directs FERC to: (1) conduct an economic analysis of each condition submitted by a consulting agency to determine whether it would render the project uneconomic. (2) conduct a single consolidated environmental review for each licensed project pursuant to its status as lead agency for environmental reviews. And (3) set a deadline for the submission of comments by Federal, State, and local government agencies regarding any environmental impact or assessment required for a project. Instructs FERC to consider the need of license applicants for a prompt decision when setting such deadlines. Directs FERC to study and report to certain congressional committees on the feasibility of establishing a separate licensing procedure for small hydroelectric projects with a generating capacity of five megawatts or less.
Fair Pay Act of 1997 - Amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to prohibit discrimination in the payment of wages on account of sex, race, or national origin. Prohibits the discharge of or any other discrimination against an individual for opposing any act or practice made unlawful by this Act, or for assisting in an investigation or proceeding under it. Directs courts, in any action brought under this Act for violation of such prohibition, to allow expert fees as part of the costs awarded to prevailing plaintiffs. Allows any such action to be maintained as a class action. Requires employers subject to such prohibition to: (1) preserve records which document and support the method, system, calculations, and other bases used by the employer in establishing, adjusting, and determining the wages paid to their employees, for periods of time prescribed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). And (2) make reports to the EEOC. Directs the EEOC to: (1) undertake studies and provide information and technical assistance to employers, labor organizations, and the general public concerning effective means available to implement this Act. (2) carry on a continuing program of research, education, and technical assistance with specified components related to the purposes of this Act. And (3) include a separate evaluation and appraisal regarding the implementation of this Act in its annual report to the Congress.
Federal Agency Anti-Lobbying Act - Prohibits the use of any appropriated funds by Federal agencies for any activity that includes the preparation, publication, or distribution of any written, oral, or visual material promoting public support or opposition to any legislative proposal, including the confirmation of the nomination of a public official or ratification of a treaty on which congressional action is not complete, with the exception of: (1) the President, (2) Vice-President, (3) specified congressional communications. And (4) public communications by any Federal agency official on the views of the President for or against any pending legislative proposal.
National Care Corps Act of 2014 - Establishes in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) the National Care Corps through which Corps Members provide certain services to individuals in need who are age 65 or older or have a disability and have difficulty with self-care.
Stop the Sale of Murderabilia Act of 2013 - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit a federal or state prison inmate convicted of a crime of violence from knowingly placing in the mail or causing to be delivered in interstate or foreign commerce any property, article, or object. Sets forth exceptions for a mailing or delivery of title to real property, title to motor vehicles, or a security to satisfy debt that is: (1) imposed by law or a court order. Or (2) incurred through a contract for legal services, a mortgage on the primary residence of the immediate family of the inmate, the education or medical care of the inmate or a member of the immediate family of the inmate, or life, health, home, or car insurance. Provides for civil and criminal forfeiture of real or personal property used to commit such a crime or obtained as a result of such crime. Provides civil remedies, including injunctions, damages, and attorney fees, for persons aggrieved by prisoners using the mail in violation of this Act.
Hope Offered through Principled, Ethically-Sound Stem Cell Research Act or the HOPE Act - Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct and support research to develop techniques for the isolation, derivation, production, or testing of pluripotent stem cells that have the flexibility of embryonic stem cells and that may result in improved understanding of, or treatments for, diseases and other adverse health conditions, provided that such techniques do not involve: (1) the creation of a viable human embryo for research purposes, (2) the destruction or discarding of a human embryo. Or (3) knowingly subjecting a human embryo to risk of injury or death greater than that allowed on fetuses in utero. Establishes the National Stem Cell Research Review Board to: (1) monitor research to ensure that it is in compliance with this Act. (2) prioritize research with the greatest potential for near term benefits. And (3) ensure fair consideration of both embryonic and adult stem cell research for funding. Sets forth consent requirements for the donation of materials for research. Applies federal provisions protecting individually identifiable health information to donors. Amends the National Organ Transplant Act to prohibit the transfer of any human ovum, human blastocyst, human embryo, or stem cell derived from a human embryo for valuable consideration. Amends the Public Health Service Act to prohibit any person from knowingly receiving any valuable consideration for any therapy that: (1) affects interstate commerce or is funded by federal assistance. And (2) utilizes cells from a human embryo if the process of deriving such cells destroyed the embryo.
National Capital Area Physician Emergency Assistance Act - Permits physicians licensed in Virginia, Maryland, or the District of Columbia to provide services to victims of emergencies in any of such jurisdictions regardless of the jurisdiction of their licensure whenever and wherever a public health emergency is declared by the relevant Governor or Mayor or by the President for the entire National Capital Area. Protects physicians from liability for all but willful, criminal, or reckless misconduct, gross negligence, or a conscious, flagrant indifference to the rights or safety of others while performing such volunteer emergency service. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide an advance registration system for physician volunteers which verifies their credentials, licences, and hospital privileges.
Keeping Salvadoran Families Together Act This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to permit an alien who is a national of El Salvador in temporary protected status (TPS) to apply for legal permanent resident status if such alien: is eligible for permanent resident status, applies for adjustment within three years, was granted or was eligible for TPS status, and has been continuously physically present in the United States for at least three years. The bill: waives certain grounds of inadmissibility. Authorizes the waiver of the continuous physical presence requirement if an alien's removal would cause extreme hardship to the alien or to the alien's spouse, children, parents, or domestic partner. Authorizes an alien who has applied for status adjustment to work. And authorizes an alien who has been ordered removed or granted voluntary departure to apply for status adjustment. An alien's spouse, parent, or unmarried child shall have his or her status adjusted to legal permanent resident if such person is eligible for status adjustment and applies within three years.
Increases Medicare payments for certified nurse-midwife and certified midwife services. Amends SSA with regard to: (1) hospital conditions of participation with respect to certified nurse-midwives and certified midwives, (2) billing rights of such practitioners. And (3) payments for the services of such practitioners furnished in teaching hospitals.
Managed Care Integrity Act of 2001 - Requires health benefits plans offered by managed care entities to ensure that the actuarial value of the aggregate plan benefits is at least 85 percent of the aggregate amount of payments received from, or on behalf of, plan enrollees. Waives such requirement for a limited period if an entity's solvency is in jeopardy or compliance would cause the entity's failure to meet State solvency requirements. Includes Medicaid managed care organizations and managed care entities providing health care coverage for Federal employees and members of the armed forces within the definition of managed care entity. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop related investigation and compliance procedures. Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to apply the requirements of this Act to MedicareChoice organizations. Sets forth noncompliance remedies.
Military Reservists Small Business Relief Act of 1999 - Amends the Small Business Act to require the Small Business Administration (SBA), upon written request, to defer repayment of principal and interest due on a direct general business or disaster loan made to a member of the reserves ordered to active duty during a period of military conflict, as long as such reservist: (1) received the loan before being ordered to such duty. And (2) is an essential employee of a small business for which the loan was made. Extends such deferral period until 180 days after such reservist is discharged or released from active duty. Directs the SBA to encourage lenders and loan intermediaries participating in other SBA loan programs to defer repayment of similar loans as well as loans made under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958. Authorizes the SBA to make disaster loans to assist a small business that has or is likely to suffer economic injury as the result of the essential employee of such business being ordered to active duty during a period of military conflict. Extends such assistance until 90 days after such reservist is discharged or released from such duty. Provides a loan limitation. Applies such assistance to periods of military conflict occurring on or after March 24, 1999. Directs the SBA to utilize its entrepreneurial development and management assistance programs to provide business counseling and training to any small business adversely affected by the deployment of units of US armed forces in support of a period of military conflict. Requires the SBA, for the duration of Operation Allied Force and 120 days thereafter, to enhance its publicity of the availability of such assistance.
Nation Building Here at Home Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish a transformational infrastructure competitive grant program to award grants to state and local governments, transit agencies, and port authorities for certain public transportation projects that will significantly impact a metropolitan area, a region, or all of the United States. The federal share of project costs is 100. The iron, steel, and manufactured goods used in projects funded under this bill must have been produced in the United States, except in specified circumstances. DOT shall coordinate with relevant federal departments and agencies to ensure that environmental reviews are made in a manner that accelerates delivery of such projects. The Department of the Treasury shall establish a Nation Building Here at Home Financing Initiative.
United States Airlift Requirements Act - Directs the Secretary of Defense to study alternatives for the asset size and mix for the Air Force intertheater airlift force, focusing on current and planned capabilities and costs of the C-5 and C-17 fleets. Requires that the study be conducted through a federally funded research and development center (FFRDC) in concert with the United States Transportation Command.
Middle East and North Africa Transition and Development Act - States that it is US policy to: (1) support a democratic transition in the Middle East and North Africa, including Egypt and Tunisia. And (2) increase economic prosperity in that region through financial investment and technical assistance and by utilizing the resources of appropriate multilateral development banks. States that US negotiating objectives to expand the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's (Bank) resources for countries in the Middle East or North Africa should be to seek: (1) specified lending criteria for loans or other Bank assistance for countries of activity , and (2) establishment of a Bank mechanism to ensure that countries of activity not committed to multiparty democracy and market economics do not benefit from Bank resources. Urges the Secretary of the Treasury to use US influence to: (1) oppose the approval of a loan or other Bank assistance to a country of activity in the Middle East or North Africa that does not meet specified criteria, and (2) seek the Bank's adoption of clear standards for the graduation of countries of activity that have substantially achieved required transition objectives. Amends the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Act to authorize the US Governor of the Bank to subscribe to additional shares of Bank stock. Authorizes appropriations for such purpose. Amends the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 to: (1) revise candidate country criteria, and (2) permit a country that no longer meets the requirements for being a candidate country because of per capita income changes in a fiscal year to maintain such candidate status during such fiscal year and the next three fiscal years.
Brownfields Remediation Waste Act - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to authorize the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to provide alternative requirements for management of remediation waste in lieu of restrictions under the Act or this Act. Defines remediation waste as all solid and hazardous wastes and all media and debris that contain listed hazardous wastes or that themselves exhibit a hazardous characteristic and are managed for implementing cleanup. Provides that such requirements shall be protective of health and the environment and remove disincentives to remediation, streamline regulation, and achieve greater flexibility for State remediation programs. Deems specified rules regarding hazardous remediation waste management promulgated by the Administrator on November 30, 1998, to be alternative requirements and to remain in effect unless the Administrator takes action to modify such rules. Prohibits the Administrator from publishing any proposal to modify such rules before reporting to Congress on problems associated with their implementation. Provides that placement of remediation waste in temporary units, staging piles, or corrective action management units designated under Federal or State authorities shall not be deemed to be engaging in land disposal and shall not be subject to specified requirements under the Act regarding hazardous waste management. Authorizes, notwithstanding the rules of November 30, 1998, and where protective of health and environment, the designation of: (1) temporary units and staging piles at another location owned or operated by a person engaged in remediation at the first location to facilitate consolidated waste management. (2) corrective action management units at one remediation waste management site to receive remediation waste from another such site. And (3) a staging pile to allow for mixing or blending for the primary purposes of subsequent waste consolidation or enhancement. Allows remediation waste management units or activities to be authorized through permits, interim status, orders, or other authorization available under the Act. Permits States to administer and enforce remediation waste management programs pursuant to programs authorized under the Act or this Act. Sets forth required elements of such programs. Authorizes States with approved programs to carry out such programs in lieu of the Federal program.
Immunization Now Act of 1993 - Entitles each infant in the United States under two years old who does not have other health insurance and who meets other requirements to receive immunizations without charge. Requires any licensed health care professional to provide immunizations in exchange for vouchers issued through hospitals or community health centers or on direct application by the parent, with quarterly reimbursements to health care providers in amounts set by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Directs the Secretary to carry out activities to inform the public and health care providers regarding the program. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes a national immunization registry system to provide for national surveillance of childhood immunization status through age six. Mandates grants for research and demonstration projects to identify mechanisms and structures to develop the registry. Requires certain measures to expand the registry from the projects to cover the entire Nation. Requires full implementation of the registry by 1997. Authorizes appropriations.
Safe Medications for the Elderly Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to: (1) provide for Medicare part B coverage of certain pharmaceutical care services. And (2) direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop a relative value scale and fee schedules for the payment of such services.
International Fund for Israeli-Palestinian Peace Authorization Act of 2017 This bill urges the President to make every effort, in conjunction with the government of Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and the international community, to establish an International Fund for Israeli-Palestinian Peace to promote and support contact, cooperation, dialogue, shared community building, peaceful coexistence, joint economic development, and reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians. The bill authorizes appropriations for US contributions to the fund following the committee of jurisdictions' agreement to the structure of the fund and its board.
National Care Corps Act of 2015 Establishes in the Department of Health and Human Services the National Care Corps through which Corps volunteers provide certain services to individuals in need who are age 65 or older or have a disability and have difficulty with self-care or living independently.
NIST Cybersecurity Framework, Assessment, and Auditing Act of 2017 This bill amends the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act to require the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), in developing standards for information systems, to emphasize the principle that expanding cybersecurity threats require: (1) engineering security from the beginning of a system's life cycle, (2) building more trustworthy and secure components and systems from the start, and (3) applying well-defined security design principles throughout systems. NIST must provide guidance for agencies to incorporate into their information security risk management efforts the Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (Framework). Such guidance shall: describe how the Framework aligns or augments existing agency practices. Identify any areas of conflict or overlap between the Framework and existing cybersecurity requirements. Include a template for federal agencies on how to use the Framework and recommend procedures for streamlining and harmonizing existing and future cybersecurity-related requirements. Recommend other procedures for compliance with cybersecurity reporting, oversight, and policy review. And be updated to reflect what NIST learns from ongoing research, cybersecurity audits, information compiled by the federal working group, and annual reports. NIST must chair a federal working group to coordinate the development of metrics and tools to measure the effectiveness of the Framework for federal agencies protecting their information and information systems. The federal working group must assist the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) in publishing annual reports on agency adoption rates and the effectiveness of the Framework. NIST must initiate an individual cybersecurity audit of certain agencies to assess the extent to whichnbsp, each agencynbsp. Meets information security standards. NIST shall prepare a needs-based plan for the audits that includes: (1) a description of staffing plans, (2) workforce capabilities, (3) methods of conducting such audits, (4) coordination with agencies to support such audits, (5) expected timeframe for the completion of the audits, and (6) other relevant information. NIST must report on the audit of each agency to: (1) OMB, (2) the OSTP, (3) the Government Accountability Office, (4) the agency being audited and its inspector general, and (5) Congress.
Private Property Rights Act of 1997 - States that the policy of the Federal Government is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public in a manner that, to the extent practicable, avoids takings of private property. Directs each Federal agency to complete a private property taking impact analysis before taking any agency action which is likely to result in a taking of private property. Exempts from such requirement certain: (1) actions in which the power of eminent domain is formally exercised. (2) any action taken with respect to property held in trust by the United States or in connection with treaty negotiations, (3) law enforcement actions. (4) communications between a Federal agency and a State or local land-use planning agency about a proposed State or local activity regulating private property, (5) military activities or military or foreign affairs functions. And (6) emergencies involving immediate threats to health or safety. Requires that the policies, regulations, and public laws of the United States be interpreted and administered in accordance with the policies under this Act. Specifies the content of such an analysis and requires a copy to be transmitted to the owner of the affected property, as well as made available to the public. Requires each agency to provide the analysis required under this Act as part of any submission otherwise required to be made to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) relating to an agency action. Requires the agency, before taking any final agency action, to fully consider alternatives described in this Act, and to the maximum extent practicable, alter the action to avoid or minimize the taking of private property. Allows the owner of private property, if an agency action results in the taking of such property, to obtain appropriate relief in a civil action against the agency that has caused the taking to occur. Provides for a civil action against the agency to be brought: (1) in either the US District Court in which the property at issue is located or in the US Court of Federal Claims (currently), regardless of the amount in controversy. And (2) if the property is located in more than one judicial district, in any district in which any part of the property is located. Directs the Attorney General to provide legal guidance in a timely manner, in response to a request by an agency, to assist it in complying with this Act. Requires annual reports by each agency to the OMB Director and Attorney General identifying each agency action that has resulted in the preparation of a taking impact analysis, the filing of a taking claim, and any award of compensation pursuant to the Just Compensation Clause of the fifth amendment to the Constitution. Creates a rebuttable presumption that unmodified analyses five years or older are outdated for purposes of any agency action or administrative or judicial proceeding.
Health Care for Veterans of Project 112Project SHAD Act of 2003 - Makes a veteran who participated in a test conducted by the Department of Defense Deseret Test Center as part of a program for chemical and biological warfare testing from 1962 through 1973 (including the program designated as Project Shipboard Hazard and Defense eligible for hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care through the Department of Veterans Affairs for any illness, notwithstanding that there is insufficient medical evidence to conclude that such illness is attributable to such testing. Terminates such eligibility after December 31, 2005. Prohibits the lack of a baccalaureate degree in nursing from being a bar to, or resulting in the denial of, a promotion to the next higher grade for a Veterans Health Administration (VHA) registered nurse who has accomplished required performance elements. Authorizes additional pay for Saturday VHA nursing duty. Allows: (1) employees of the Veterans' Canteen Service (Service) to be considered for appointment to a Department position in the competitive service in the same manner that Department employees in the competitive service are considered for transfer to Service positions. And (2) former Service employees to count their previous period of employment toward the time-in-service requirement of a Department position in the competitive service.
National Foundation on Physical Fitness and Sports Establishment Act - Establishes the National Foundation on Physical Fitness and Sports as a charitable, nonprofit corporation to promote participation by private organizations in the activities of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. Subjects any person who uses the Council's or Foundation's official seal or any trademark, trade name, sign, symbol, or insignia falsely representing association with, or authorization by, the Council or Foundation for the purpose of trade, to induce the sale of any goods or services, or to promote any theatrical exhibition, athletic performance, or competition without the Foundation's consent to a civil action for remedies provided in the Trademark Act of 1946. Allows the Foundation, in conjunction with the Council, to authorize contributors and suppliers of goods or services to use such trade name, trademark, seal, symbol, insignia, or emblem in advertising under specified conditions.
Child Care Access and Refundability Expansion Act or the Child CARE Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the tax credit for employment-related expenses incurred for the care of a taxpayer's dependent, to: (1) make such credit refundable, (2) deny such creditnbsp. For services provided outside the United States, (3) increase the dollar limit on the allowable amount of such credit and the percentage rate for qualified expenses, (4) deny such credit for taxpayers whose adjusted gross income exceeds $200,000 in a taxable year. And (5) allow an annual inflation adjustment to the threshold amount for reducing such credit and the maximum allowable credit amount, beginning after 2015. The bill also allows a new tax credit for 50 of the child care educational expenses, up to a maximum of $1,000 in any taxable year,nbsp. Paid with respect to the operation of a qualified child care center.
Railroad Infrastructure Financing Improvement Act This bill amends the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976 to direct the Department of Transportation (DOT) to make direct loans and loan guarantees to: joint ventures that include, instead of at least one railroad, at least one railroad, state or local government, interstate compact, or government sponsored authority or corporation (entity). And any obligor, as designated by such an entity, including a special purpose entity receiving user fees or other payments or revenues from dedicated sources for debt service and maintenance of the equipment or facilities to be acquired or improved. Direct loans and loan guarantees may also be solely for a public-private partnership, private entity, a consortium that specializes in real estate development, or an economic development project physically or functionally related to a passenger rail station or multimodal station. DOT shall notify direct loan or loan guarantee applicants if their applications are incomplete, and within another 60 days approve or disapprove a resubmitted application. Charges may be collected for certain costs additional to the evaluation of applications. The current formula cap on such a charge is repealed. The term for repayment of a direct loan or loan guarantee may extend from a maximum of 35 years to a maximum of the lesser of 50 years or 90 of the estimated useful life of the rail equipment or facilities to be acquired, rehabilitated, improved, developed, or established. DOT may allow an obligor to add unpaid principal and interest to the outstanding balance if at any time after the date of substantial completion the project is unable to generate sufficient revenues to pay the scheduled loan repayments of principal and interest on a direct loan. Prepayments without penalty are also allowed. Authority for cohorts of loans is repealed. A direct loan or loan guarantee applicant may propose, and DOT may accept as collateral, as a basis for determining the amount of a credit risk premium any of the following in lieu of the value of any tangible asset: a rate covenant. Adequate coverage requirements to ensure repayment, on a non-recourse basis, from cash flows generated by the project or any other dedicated revenue source. An investment-grade rating on debt senior to the direct loan or loan guarantee. Or a rating on the direct loan or loan guarantee. DOT may enter into a master credit agreement if: the common security pledge receives an investment-grade rating from a rating agency before entry into the master credit agreement. And all specified conditions for the provision of direct loans or loan guarantees, as applicable, are satisfied. DOT must require the applicant for an economic development project to pay, in addition to interest, a fee to provide an equitable share of revenue to support capital or operating costs of routes serving the passenger rail station or multimodal station where the development is located.
Student Disciplinary Fairness Act of 2015 This bill amends the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 to establish an Office of School and Discipline Policy within the Department of Justice (DOJ). The Office must collect and publish data on the arrests or incarceration of juvenile students for violations of school rules or policies. It must also collaborate with states and local governments to expand alternatives to juvenile detention and incarceration. The legislation amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Streets Act of 1968 to require state or local governments that apply for public safety and community policing grants to provide assurances that the administration of juvenile justice in their jurisdictions is consistent with constitutional guarantees, including due process and equal protection, and that probation terms for a juvenile meet certain conditions. This bill amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to authorize DOJ to issue subpoenas during investigations of law enforcement agencies for alleged patterns or practices of conduct that violate constitutional rights. The Office of Civil Rights of the Department of Education must make grants to states, local governments, and juvenile justice agencies to train elementary and secondary school teachers and administrators on de-escalation techniques to mitigate delinquent student behavior.
National Renewable Energy Lands Act of 2002 - Instructs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Reclamation and the Bureau of Land Management, to: (1) evaluate all Federal hydroelectric facilities on Federal lands and identify candidates for interconnection with potential renewable energy generation facilities. (2) evaluate and identify renewable energy production candidate sites on Federal lands, (3) complete an engineering feasibility analysis for such sites. And (4) expeditiously make the most promising of the candidate sites available for long-term lease pursuant to a competitive bidding process to qualified renewable energy development firms. Requires the Comptroller General to investigate and report to Congress on the existing impediments to construction of renewable energy projects on Federal lands and the measures necessary to expedite project development.
Superfund Recycling Equity Act of 1995 - Amends the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 to absolve persons who arranged for the recycling of recyclable material from liability for environmental response actions. Excludes from the definition of recyclable material any material that contains polychlorinated biphenyls in excess of 50 parts per million or any Federal standard promulgated after this Act's enactment. Considers transactions involving scrap paper, plastic, glass, textiles, rubber , or metal or spent batteries to be arranging for recycling if the person arranging the transaction can demonstrate that: (1) the recyclable material met a commercial specification grade and a market existed for the material. (2) a substantial portion of the material was made available for use as a feedstock for the manufacture of a new saleable product. (3) the material could have been a replacement for a virgin raw material. (4) in the case of transactions occurring no later than 90 days after this Act's enactment, the person exercised reasonable care to determine that the consuming facility was in compliance with Federal, State, or local environmental laws or regulations. (5) in the case of transactions involving scrap metal that occurred after the effective date of a regulation or standard associated with scrap metal recycling promulgated under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the person was in compliance with such regulation or standard and did not melt the metal prior to the transaction. And (6) in the case of transactions involving batteries, the person did not recover the valuable components of the battery and the person was in compliance with Federal environmental regulations or standards regarding battery recycling. Makes the exemptions from liability under this Act inapplicable if the person: (1) had an objectively reasonable basis to believe at the time of the recycling transaction that the recyclable material would not be recycled or would be burned as fuel or for energy recovery or incineration or that, in the case of transactions occurring no later than 90 days after this Act's enactment, the consuming facility was not in compliance with Federal, State, or local environmental laws or regulations. (2) added hazardous substances to the material for purposes other than processing for recycling. Or (3) failed to exercise reasonable care with respect to the management of the material.
Children's Education Tax Credit Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish an annual tax credit for qualified educational expenses paid by a taxpayer for the taxpayer, a spouse, or a dependent. Provides for: (1) credit proration in cases of shared expenses, (2) inclusion of certain home schooling expenses. And (3) adjustments for certain scholarships and veterans' benefits. Defines eligible educational institution as an institution of higher education, or a vocational, secondary, or elementary school.
Community College Teacher Preparation Enhancement Act of 2004 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish a teacher training enhancement program. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award matching grants to eligible entities for teacher training or preparation. Includes among eligible entities: (1) statewide boards with jurisdiction over community colleges and four-year institutions of higher education (IHEs). (2) partnerships between statewide boards with jurisdiction over community colleges and statewide boards with jurisdiction over four-year IHEs, (3) partnerships between community colleges and four-year IHEs. Or (4) community colleges offering teacher preparation programs that provide all, or a significant portion of, teacher training, postbaccalaureate certification, and professional development. Gives priority to proposals for using grants for: (1) teacher preparation in geographic areas with shortages of highly qualified teachers. (2) preparing teachers in kindergarten through grade 12 subject content areas that have a shortage of highly qualified teachers, (3) innovative programs to address teacher training or teacher preparation, (4) outreach into secondary schools. Or (5) plans to disseminate information. Requires grantees to use grant funds for at least one of specified mandatory uses. Sets forth permissive uses of grants.
Directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to implement a process to provide eligible organizations and individuals expedited access to federal lands to conduct good Samaritan search-and-recovery missions. Sets forth procedures for the approval or denial of requests made by eligible organizations or individuals to carry out a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission. Requires the Secretaries to develop search-and-recovery focused partnerships with search-and-recovery organizations to: (1) coordinate good Samaritan search-and-recovery missions on such lands, and (2) expedite and accelerate mission efforts for missing individuals on such lands.
Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians and the Little River Band of Ottawa Indians Act - Reaffirms and extends Federal recognition and associated benefits to the Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians and the Little River Band of Ottawa Indians (Tribes) of Michigan. Provides for the Tribes to be governed by current interim documents and officials until the Secretary of the Interior conducts elections to adopt a constitution and elect new tribal officials. Provides for the transfer of specified land for the benefit of the Bands.
Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection Act - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to establish a Coastal and Estuarine Land Protection Program to protect the environmental integrity of undeveloped coastal and estuarine areas. Requires the program to be administered by the National Ocean Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) through the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management. Authorizes the Secretary to make Program grants to coastal states with approved coastal zone management plans or National Estuarine Research Reserve units for the purpose of acquiring property that will further the goals of an approved Coastal Zone Management Plan or Program, a National Estuarine Research Reserve management plan, or a regional or state watershed protection plan. Prohibits any more than 75 of the funding for any project funded with a grant made under the program from being derived from federal sources. Reserves 15 of program funds for acquisitions benefitting the National Estuarine Research Reserve. Specifies that when property is acquired under this program, the grant recipient shall provide assurances that: (1) title will be held by the recipient or another public agency designated by the recipient in perpetuity. (2) property will be managed consistent with the purpose of the Program. And (3) funds will be returned to the Secretary for redistribution if the property is sold, exchanged, or divested.
Close Big Oil Tax Loopholes Act - Expresses the sense of the Senate that: (1) the President and Administration should be commended for recognizing the severity of high gas prices and for taking appropriate actions to help reduce gas prices. (2) Congress should take additional actions to complement the efforts of the President. (3) the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) should contribute to the stabilization of world oil markets and prices and reduce the burden of high gasoline prices by using existing idle oil production capacity to compensate for any supply shortages. And (4) US economic, environmental, and national security depend on a sustained effort to reduce and eventually eliminate the dependence of the United States on oil. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to deny to oil companies with gross receipts in excess of $1 billion in a taxable year and an average daily worldwide production of crude oil of at least 500,000 barrels a year: (1) a foreign tax credit if such company is a dual capacity taxpayer, as defined by this Act. (2) the tax deduction for income attributable to domestic production of oil, natural gas, or primary products thereof, (3) the tax deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, (4) the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas wells. And (5) the tax deduction for qualified tertiary injectant expenses. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to repeal the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to grant royalty relief for natural gas production from deep wells and deep water oil and gas production in the Outer Continental Shelf. Dedicates any increased revenue generated by this Act to the reduction of a federal budget deficit or the public debt. Provides for compliance of the budgetary effects of this Act with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
Repatriate Our Patriots Act This bill prohibits a special veteran from being removed from the United States. A special veteran: (1) is an alien veteran who was discharged or released from military service under conditions other than dishonorable, (2) includes only an honorably discharged or released individual. And (3) excludes an individual convicted of voluntary manslaughter, murder, rape, sexual abuse of a minor, or terrorism-related offenses or an individual determined to be a child abuser or a pedophile. DHS: (1) shall process naturalization applications for special veterans within 90 days. And (2) may permit special veterans to file naturalization applications from abroad and take the oath of allegiance at US embassies, consulates, and military installations. DHS shall: (1) cancel the removal of a special veteran in removal proceedings, and (2) allow a special veteran whose permanent resident status was rescinded to adjust back to such status. The Department of Justice, in the case of a special veteran who was ordered removed, shall rescind any outstanding order of removal and any finding that the individual is subject to removal or is inadmissible. DHS shall create a program to allow a special veteran who was removed to return to the United States as a lawfully admitted permanent resident. A special veteran who has been naturalized or who has obtained lawful permanent resident status pursuant to this bill shall be eligible for all military and veterans benefits for which such individual would have been eligible otherwise. DHS shall identify and maintain records of immigration cases involving special veterans.
Requires the head of an agency to include on the first page of each statement published by the agency that is not a rule a notice that the statement has no general applicability or future effect, as applicable, and is not binding on the public. Authorizes appropriations.
Anti-Fraudulent Intercountry Adoption Practices Act of 1996 - Prohibits any person offering to perform any act or render any service in connection with the placement of a child for adoption from knowingly falsifying or concealing a material fact or from making or using any false document. Defines material facts, documents, and representations to include: (1) information about the political or legal conditions and circumstances in any country in which the legal proceedings of the adoption are to take place that may affect the adoption process. And (2) information released by the US Department of State in the form of travel notices and other advisories regarding the adoption process in any such country. Sets penalties for violations. Prohibits knowingly soliciting or receiving money or anything of value for placing any child for adoption under circumstances that require such child to be transported in interstate or foreign commerce, with exceptions. Sets penalties for violations. Expresses the sense of the Congress that there should be civil remedies for victims of fraudulent adoption practices.
Coordinate to Educate Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award: (1) grants of up to three years to local educational agencies (LEAs) to collaborate with health and social service agencies to develop school-linked coordinated service programs for children and families on or near school sites. And (2) grants of up to two years to LEAs to implement such programs pursuant to interagency service delivery plans that have been approved by the Secretary. Requires program services to be available to all children and families in the service area and, where appropriate, paid for on a sliding scale. Directs the Secretary, in awarding grants, to give special consideration to areas with high proportions of educationally at-risk students and areas that have a large number of single parent or two-parent, working families.
Fair Debt Collection Practices Amendments Act of 1995 - Amends the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act to limit the exclusion from its purview of debt collection activities by a Federal or State official to collection of debts owed to the Federal or a State government, respectively. Permits a debt collector to acquire income, assets, or credit information from a person other than the debtor's attorney if the attorney refuses to provide such information. Revises procedural guidelines for: (1) debt validation, (2) legal actions by debt collectors. And (3) limitations on damages, including repeal of the allowance of up to $1,000 in additional damages. Provides that this Act: (1) supersedes any State law creating a private right of action against a debt collector. (2) does not provide a remedy for any violation of State law regarding debt collection practices. And (3) does not establish any liability or penalty for violation of State law unless such violation also constitutes a violation under this Act.
Securities Law Technical Corrections Act of 2007 - Makes technical corrections to the following Acts: (1) the Securities Act of 1933, (2) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (3) the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, (4) the Investment Company Act of 1940. And (5) the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Amends the following statutes to make conforming amendments for the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935: (1) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (2) the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, (3) the Investment Company Act of 1940, and (4) the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
Emergency Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 2001 - Provides for a program of emergency extended unemployment compensation (EEUC). Sets forth EEUC program requirements for Federal-State agreements, formulae for determining amounts in individual EEUC accounts and weekly benefits, payments to States, and financing. Includes among eligibility requirements an individual's not having rights, with respect to a week, to other compensation . Reduces an individual EEUC account by the aggregate amount of any extended compensation for the same benefit year. Makes EEUC agreements applicable to weeks of unemployment: (1) beginning on or after the first day of the first week after the date on which such agreement is entered into. And (2) ending before the date that is 18 months after enactment of this Act. Amends the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to authorize appropriations to expand the National Emergency Grant program, for an 18-month period, to include grants to States to provide certain employment and training assistance and temporary health care coverage premium assistance for workers affected by major economic dislocations, such as plant closures, mass layoffs, or multiple layoffs, caused by the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
Department of Homeland Security Data Framework Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to: (1) develop a data framework to integrate existing DHS datasets and systems for access by authorized personnel in a manner consistent with relevant legal authorities and privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties policies and protections. (2) ensure that all information of a DHS office or component that falls within the scope of the information sharing environment, and any information or intelligence relevant to priority mission needs and capability requirements of the homeland security enterprise, is included. And (3) ensure that the framework is accessible to DHS employees who have an appropriate security clearance, who are assigned to perform a function that requires access, and who are trained in applicable standards for safeguarding and using such information. DHS shall: (1) issue guidance for DHS employees authorized to access and contribute to the framework that enforces a duty to share between DHS offices and components for mission needs. And (2) promulgate data standards and instruct DHS components to make available information through the framework in a machine-readable format. DHS may exclude information that could: jeopardize the protection of sources, methods, or activities, compromise a criminal or national security investigation, be inconsistent with the other federal laws or regulations. Or be duplicative or not serve an operational purpose. DHS shall incorporate into such framework systems capabilities for auditing and ensuring the security of information. Such capabilities shall include: (1) mechanisms for identifying insider threats and security risks. And (2) safeguards for privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties. DHS shall ensure that, by two years after this bill's enactment, the framework has the ability to include appropriate information in existence within the department to meet its critical mission operations.
Veterans Benefits and Economic Welfare Improvement Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training to carry out a joint training program to provide eligible veterans with skills relevant to the job market. Makes eligible for such program any veteran who: (1) is not otherwise eligible for education or training services through the VA. (2) has not acquired a marketable skill since being separated or released from military service, (3) was discharged under honorable conditions. And (4) has been unemployed for at least 90 days during the 180-day period preceding program application, or, during such 180-day period, received a maximum hourly pay rate of not more than 150 of the federal minimum wage. Allows for payments to employers for the provision of apprenticeship or on-job training under such program. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the program at the end of FY2016. Allows a VA benefits claimant to waive any claim development period upon submission of a fully developed claim, and requires the Secretary to provide expeditious treatment of such a claim. Requires the Secretary to notify a claimant of a non-fully developed claim within 30 days after that determination. Directs the Secretary, in denying a benefit, to include in a notice of that decision any form or application required to appeal the decision. Extends the 120-day time limit for the filing of a notice of appeal of a final decision of the Board of Veterans' Appeals for such time as justice may require, upon a showing of good cause. Applies such extension retroactively to final Board decisions issued on or after July 24, 2008. Excludes from annual income, for purposes of eligibility for VA pension benefits for veterans and their surviving spouses and children: (1) reimbursements for expenses resulting from any accident, theft or loss, or casualty loss, or medical expenses or pain and suffering related to such accidents or losses. And (2) payments of up to $5,000 paid by a state or municipality as a veterans' benefit due to injury or disease. Extends through FY2015 VA authority to obtain veterans' income verification information from the Commissioner of Social Security or the Secretary of the Treasury. Directs the Secretary to establish the VetStar Award Program to recognize annually businesses for their contribution to veterans' employment. Increases from $1,000 to $2,000 the special monthly pension for Medal of Honor recipients. Requires the budgetary effects of this Act to be determined by reference to the latest statement titled Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation for this Act, provided such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
Coastal Restoration Tax Credit Act of 2005 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for expenditures related to any project approved by the Natural Resources Conservation Service to restore or protect coastal lands in the United States.
Mexican Agricultural Trade Compliance Act - Determines that US rights under the Uruguay Round Agreements are being denied by Mexico in connection with Mexico's imposition of a 20 percent tax on soft drinks containing high fructose corn syrup, an extension of Mexico's unjustified antidumping order on high fructose corn syrup from the United States. Directs the US Trade Representative, unless certifying to Congress within 30 days after the enactment of this Act that Mexico has eliminated such tax and is otherwise preserving all US trade agreement rights with respect to high fructose corn syrup, to either: (1) suspend, withdraw, or prevent the application of benefits of trade agreement concessions to carry out a trade agreement with Mexico. Or (2) impose duties or other import restrictions on the goods of Mexico, and fees or restrictions on the services of Mexico.
Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 - Makes the general terminating date of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2010 (EGTRRA) inapplicable to provisions of that Act relating to individual income tax rate reductions, tax benefits related to children and adoption, marriage penalty relief, and education. Repeals the terminating date of the Jobs Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003 that applies to reductions in the tax rate for capital gains and dividend income, subject to the income thresholds set forth by this Act. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) establish permanent reductions in income tax rates for individual taxpayers whose adjusted gross income is $200,000 or less. (2) allow a permanent exemption from limitations on itemized tax deductions and personal exemptions for individual taxpayers whose adjusted gross income is $200,000 or less. (3) allow a 15 tax rate on capital gains and dividend income for individual taxpayers whose adjusted gross income is $200,000 or less. (4) allow a permanent increase in the refundable portion of the child tax credit. (5) make permanent the increased earned income tax credit and the modifications to such credit enacted by EGTRRA. (6) make permanent the increased ($125,000) expensing allowance for depreciable business and investment property. And (7) extend through 2011 the increased alternative minimum tax (AMT) exemption amounts and the offset against the AMT for certain nonrefundable personal tax credits. Provides for compliance of the budgetary effects of this Act with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Withdrawal of Acknowledgement of Recognition Title II: Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska Title III: Paskenta Band of Nomlaki Indians of California Title I: Withdrawal of Acknowledgement of Recognition - Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to publish an annual list of federally recognized Indian tribes. Title II: Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska - Tlingit and Haida Status Clarification Act - States that the Congress reaffirms and acknowledges that the Central Council of Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska is a federally recognized Indian tribe. Title III: Paskenta Band of Nomlaki Indians of California - Paskenta Band Restoration Act - Extends Federal recognition and restores rights and privileges of the Paskenta Band of Nomlaki Indians of the Paskenta Rancheria of California.
Department of Veterans Affairs Major Medical Facility Lease Authorization Act of 2013 - Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out specified major medical facility leases (leases) in New Mexico, New Jersey, South Carolina, Georgia, Hawaii, Kansas, Louisiana, Florida, Puerto Rico, Texas, California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Missouri, Tennessee, Illinois, Nebraska, Arizona, and Oklahoma. Directs the Secretary, in exercising the authority to enter into such leases, to record as the full cost of the contractual obligation at the time a contract is executed either: (1) the amount of total payments under the full lease term. Or (2) if the lease specifies payments to be made in the event the lease is terminated before its full term, an amount sufficient to cover the first-year payments plus the specified cancellation costs. Requires the funding prospectus of a proposed lease to include a detailed analysis of how the lease is expected to comply with Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-11 and the Anti-Deficiency Act, including an analysis of: (1) the classification of the lease as a lease-purchase, capital lease, or operating lease, (2) the obligation of budgetary resources associated with the lease. And (3) the methodology used in determining the asset cost, fair market value, and cancellation costs of the lease. Directs the Secretary, at least 30 days before entering into a lease, to submit to the congressional veterans committees: (1) notice of the intention to enter into, and a copy of, such lease. (2) a description and analysis of any differences between the lease prospectus submitted and the proposed lease. And (3) a scoring analysis demonstrating that the proposed lease fully complies with OMB Circular A-11. Requires the Secretary, no more than 30 days after entering into a lease, to report any material differences between the proposed lease and the lease entered.
Anti-Corruption Act of 1995 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prescribe criminal penalties to be imposed against anyone who uses any facility of, or affects, interstate or foreign commerce to deprive or defraud the inhabitants of a State or political subdivision (State) of the honest services of a government official or employee, or of a fair and impartially conducted election process. Prescribes criminal penalties to be imposed upon any official, or person selected to be a public official, who, in order to carry out or conceal any scheme or artifice to defraud, discriminates, harasses, or takes adverse action against any employee or official of the United States or of any State. Authorizes such an adversely affected employee or official to obtain relief through a civil action, provided such person did not participate in the scheme or artifice. Specifies that: (1) to obtain recovery against a State, the employee or individual bringing the action shall establish by a preponderance of evidence that any such violation was the result of widespread violations, or conduct authorized by a senior official, within the State. And (2) in cases in which a State is sued and found liable for recovery, the State may bring an action for contribution for such recovery from any employee or official whose action led to the recovery. Amends mail fraud provisions to prohibit using, or causing the use, of any facility of interstate or foreign commerce in the execution of a scheme or artifice to defraud. Sets forth prohibitions regarding narcotics-related public corruption.
Displaced Aircraft Manufacturers Workers Relief Act of 2001 - Authorizes certain groups of workers who have become totally or partially separated from employment with an aircraft manufacturer as a result of reductions in production or closure of an airport due to a terrorist action or security measures to petition the Secretary of Labor for a certification of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance . Provides certain benefits to eligible workers meeting certain eligibility requirements. Provides eligible workers who do not meet certain requirements for State unemployment compensation with a limited readjustment allowance under this Act. Provides for payment of premiums for COBRA health care continuation coverage of eligible workers. Authorizes a State to elect to provide medical assistance under its Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act for eligible workers who are not eligible for COBRA health care continuation coverage, and who are uninsured.
Theodore Roosevelt Commemorative Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to issue five-dollar gold coins, one-dollar silver coins, and half-dollar coins whose obverse side shall bear the likeness of Theodore Roosevelt, and whose reverse side shall be emblematic of the Nation's natural resources. Mandates that surcharges received from coin sales be made available to the Secretary of the Interior in connection with the administration of the Endangered Species Act of 1973.
Cleaning Product Right to Know Act of 2011 - Requires a cleaning product manufactured or offered for sale, distributed in commerce, or imported into the United States to bear a label listing each of its ingredients: (1) by the name assigned by the International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients or, if there is no such name, by the name assigned by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry or, if there is none, by its common chemical name. And (2) in descending order of predominance by weight, except that ingredients that constitute less than 1 of the product can be listed at the end in any order. Allows the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exempt from such labeling requirement: (1) an ingredient that is present in a product at such low levels that detection is not technologically feasible, or (2) for five-year periods, an ingredient that a manufacturer demonstrates to be a trade secret. Sets forth required disclosures for, and limitations to, a manufacturer's claim that an ingredient is a trade secret. Requires a product that is not in conformity with the labeling requirements and not exempt to be treated as a misbranded hazardous substance under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA). Increases penalties for violations of FHSA. Authorizes any person to petition the CPSC to investigate claims that a product does not satisfy the labeling requirements. Requires: (1) each cleaning product manufacturer to make available on its website a complete list of ingredients for each product, including any potential adverse health effect of each ingredient. And (2) CPSC to provide on its website aggregated information that allows users to compare products made by different manufacturers.
Temporary Worker Registration and Visa Act of 2005 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide for issuance of a temporary worker visa (W-visa) for qualifying aliens who have been continuously unlawfully present and working full-time in the United States from January 1, 2005 through the application date provided for under this Act. Conditions such admission on the alien worker's continuous employment. Limits family member follow-to-join admissions to situations where the family member meets registration or W-visa requirements.
National Milestones to Measure Progress in Ending the Opioid Epidemic Act of 2018 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop national milestones to measure progress in reducing the opioid epidemic over a five-year period based on certain metrics, such as opioid-related overdoses, emergency room visits, and treatment admissions. HHS must submit annual reports and status updates, including evaluations of federal programs that are intended to address the opioid epidemic.
Coal Cleanup Taxpayer Protection Act This bill amends the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act to prohibit the Office of Surface Mining and Reclamation Enforcement (OSMRE)and state regulatory authoritiesfrom accepting new self-bonds for coal reclamation. Additionally, any existing self-bonds or corporate bondsutilized for coal reclamationmust be converted to surety or collateral bonds. The OSMRE may approve state or federal alternative coal miningbond programs thatresult in no greater risk of financial liability to the federalgovernment than a surety or collateral bond program. The bill also requires the OSMRE to issue rules establishing limitations on surety bondsto minimize the financial liability to the federal or stategovernment.
Survivors' and Dependents' Educational Assistance Adjustment Act of 2002 - Provides incremental increases in the rates of educational assistance provided to veterans' survivors and dependents, including for full- and part-time courses, correspondence courses, special restorative training, and apprenticeship training. Entitles an eligible person who first files a claim for such assistance after enactment of this Act to assistance for up to 36 months. Increases the annual aggregate amount available to State educational approving agencies for the reimbursement of administrative expenses.
Energy-Efficient Cool Roof Jobs Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to classify any qualified energy-efficient cool roof replacement property as 20-year property for depreciation purposes. Defines qualified energy-efficient cool roof replacement property as any roof system that: (1) is placed in service above conditioned or semi-heated space on an eligible commercial building during the period between the enactment of this Act and December 31, 2013, (2) has a slope equal to or less than 2:12, (3) replaces an existing roof system, and (4) includes insulation meeting specified standards and a primary roof covering that has a cool roof surface.
Trade Accountability Study Act - Establishes the Trade Impact Review Commission to determine: (1) the extent to which exports of US goods to North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) countries, and imports into the United States of goods from NAFTA countries, have increased or decreased since January 1, 1994. (2) the number of jobs in the United States that have resulted from increased exports of US goods to NAFTA countries, and the number of jobs in the United States that have been lost as a result of increased imports into the United States of goods from NAFTA countries, since January 1, 1994. (3) the extent to which exports of US goods to the People's Republic of China, and imports into the United States of Chinese goods, have increased or decreased, since December 11, 2001. And (4) the number of jobs in the United States that have resulted from increased exports of US goods to China, and the number of jobs in the United States lost as a result of increased imports into the United States of goods from China, since December 11, 2001. Directs the President to certify annually to Congress whether or not: (1) each NAFTA country is meeting its commitments with respect to the North American Agreement on Environmental Cooperation and the North American Agreement on Labor Cooperation. And (2) China is meeting its obligations with respect to the protection of the environment and worker rights because of its accession to the World Trade Organization, including commitments made to the United States.
Every Child Deserves a Family Act - Prohibits an entity that receives federal assistance and is involved in adoption or foster care placements from discriminating against prospective adoptive or foster parents solely on the basis of their sexual orientation, gender identification, or martial status. Requires a General Accounting Office study and report to Congress on whether states have substantially complied with this Act in eliminating policies, practices, or statutes that deny adoption rights on the basis of these criteria.
Stop Assistance to Counterfeiters Act - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to require US foreign assistance recipients to certify that such assistance will not be used to intentionally traffic in goods or services that contain counterfeit marks or for other purposes that promote the improper use of intellectual property. Exempts from such requirement direct assistance to a foreign government or to an international organization that is an association of representatives of national governments, including the United Nations. Directs the President to suspend or terminate assistance to a recipient who is in violation of this Act. Authorizes a national security waiver.
Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis Research, Cure, and Care Act of 2011 - Authorizes the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to undertake psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis data collection efforts to collect information regarding: (1) the prevalence of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis in the United States, (2) the age of onset, (3) health-related quality of life, (4) health care utilization, (5) the burden of such disease, (6) direct and indirect costs. (7) health disparities, including with respect to age, gender, race, and ethnicity. And (8) comorbidities and the natural history of such disease. Allows such data collection efforts to include: (1) incorporating questions into public health surveys, questionnaires, and other databases in existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act. And (2) the consideration and development of a patient registry. Encourages the Director of the National Institutes of Health to explore the development of a virtual Center of Excellence for Collaborative Discovery in Psoriasis and Comorbid Research or some other mechanism through which public and private sector findings regarding psoriasis and its comorbid conditions can be regularly shared and leveraged.
Assault Weapons Prohibition Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit the transfer or possession of an assault weapon, with exceptions. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to recommend to the Congress that the definition of an assault weapon be modified. Provides enhanced penalties for the use of an assault weapon during and in relation to any crime of violence or drug trafficking crime. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) investigate and study the effect of this Act on violent and drug-related crime. And (2) evaluate the recreational and other noncriminal uses of assault weapons.
Connect with Veterans Act of 2014 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) establish a program to facilitate outreach to veterans by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the primary agencies of states for the administration of veterans' benefits and services, political subdivisions of states, and Indian tribes. And (2) publicize such program and the benefits to such entities of participating. Requires the Secretary, to carry out such program, to: (1) establish a national directory of veterans, and (2) share information in the directory with any such entities from whom a participating individual has expressed interest in receiving information. Prohibits: (1) the Secretary from selling information collected under this Act, (2) the Secretary or any participating entity from sharing such information with a non-participating entity, or (3) any participating entity from using any such information for any political communication or from requiring any participating individual to purchase any product or service. Requires the Secretary of Defense (DOD) to: (1) provide to each member of the Armed Forces separating from service a form for the collection of information to be included in the directory, (2) ensure that completion of the form is voluntary, and (3) protect the privacy of individuals who submit information and the security of information. Directs the Secretaries of Defense and Labor to jointly take appropriate steps to integrate the collection of information under this Act into the Transition Assistance Program.
Truancy Prevention and Juvenile Crime Reduction Act of 1998 - Directs the Attorney General to make grants to eligible partnerships of local governmental units and local educational agencies to reduce truancy and the incidence of daytime juvenile crime. Sets forth provisions regarding maximum grant awards, allocation of such awards, and grant renewal. Authorizes the use of grant amounts to comprehensively address truancy through: (1) parental involvement in prevention activities, (2) sanctions, (3) parental accountability, (4) in-school truancy prevention programs. (5) involvement of local law enforcement, social services, judicial, business, and religious communities, and nonprofit organizations, (6) technology. Or (7) elimination of 40-day count and other unintended incentives to allow students to be truant after a certain time of school year. Authorizes the Attorney General to give priority to funding programs that attempt to replicate specified model programs. Authorizes appropriations.
Hospital Price Reporting and Disclosure Act of 2005 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require a hospital or ambulatory surgical center to: (1) report data to the Secretary of Health and Human Services regarding the frequency of performing certain services and administering certain drugs and the charge by the hospital or center for such services or drugs. And (2) prominently post such information at each admission site. Requires the Secretary to: (1) publicly post such information in a manner that promotes charge comparisons among hospitals and centers. And (2) select which services or drugs are to be reported based on how frequently each service is performed or each drug is administered. Allows the Secretary to impose a civil monetary penalty for violations of this Act.
Energy Security Act of 2011 - Establishes in the Executive Office of the President the national energy security program to coordinate federal government activities and policies to ensure that the United States meets goals for reducing oil dependence, oil imports, and oil consumption as well as other energy policy goals. Declares it is the goal of the United States to reduce oil consumption by 2030 by an amount equal to or greater than the quantity of oil imported from outside of North America. Directs the President, in coordination with the National Energy Security Council and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to develop a national oil independence plan, which shall be updated biennially. Directs the President to review existing federal programs and authorities to determine: (1) which of them could be used to accelerate reductions in oil dependence, and (2) the means to maximize such reductions. Establishes in the Executive Office of the President the National Energy Security Council.
American Super Computing Leadership Act - Amends the Department of Energy High-End Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 with respect to: (1) exascale computing , and (2) a high-end computing system with performance substantially exceeding that of systems commonly available for advanced scientific and engineering applications. Directs the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to: (1) coordinate the development of high-end computing systems across DOE. (2) partner with universities, National Laboratories, and industry to ensure the broadest possible application of the technology developed in the program to other challenges in science, engineering, medicine, and industry. And (3) include among the multiple architectures researched, at DOE discretion, any computer technologies that show promise of substantial reductions in power requirements and substantial gains in parallelism of multicore processors, concurrency, memory and storage, bandwidth, and reliability. Repeals authority for establishment of at least one High-End Software Development Center. Directs the Secretary to conduct a coordinated research program to develop exascale computing systems to advance DOE missions. Requires establishment through competitive merit review of two or more DOE National Laboratory-industry-university partnerships to conduct integrated research, development, and engineering of multiple exascale architectures. Requires the Secretary to conduct mission-related co-design activities in developing such exascale platforms. Defines quot, co-designquot. As the joint development of application algorithms, models, and codes with computer technology architectures and operating systems to maximize effective use of high-end computing systems. Directs the Secretary to develop any advancements in hardware and software technology required to realize fully the potential of an exascale production system in addressing DOE target applications and solving scientific problems involving predictive modeling and simulation and large-scale data analytics and management. Requires DOE also to explore the use of exascale computing technologies to advance a broad range of science and engineering. Directs the Secretary to submit to Congress an integrated strategy and program management plan. Requires the Secretary, before initiating construction or installation of an exascale-class computing facility, to transmit to Congress a separate plan detailing: (1) the proposed facility's cost projections and capabilities to significantly accelerate the development of new energy technologies. (2) technical risks and challenges that must be overcome to achieve successful completion and operation of the facility. And (3) an independent assessment of the scientific and technological advances expected from such a facility relative to those expected from a comparable investment in expanded research and applications at terascale-class and petascale-class computing facilities, including an evaluation of where investments should be made in the system software and algorithms to enable these advances.
FHA Improvement Act of 1994 - Amends the National Housing Act to revise the single family mortgage insurance program. Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to study mortgage insurance premiums and mortgage amount limitations.
Increasing Medical Oversight in the Department of Veterans Affairs Act of 2014 - Establishes the Office of the Medical Inspector of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) within the Office of the Under Secretary for Health. Includes among the functions of the Office to: review the quality of health care provided to veterans by the VA generally and by the VA through contracts with non-VA health care providers. Review offices of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) that have an impact on the quality of health care provided to veterans by the VA and the performance of the VA in providing such care. Review VHA offices and facilities to ensure that VA and VHA policies and procedures are applied consistently. Investigate any systemic issues that arise within VHA, including improper issuance of credentials and privileges to health care providers, impediments to access to VA health care, wait times for appointments at VA medical facilities in excess of VA goals, and intentional falsification by VA employees of information regarding wait times. Establish temporary investigative teams to carry out reviews in response to specific incidents or inquiries, including veterans' complaints and potential systemic issues within VHA that may require the conduct of surveys, the collection of data, and the analysis of VA databases. Recommend policies to promote economy and efficiency in the administration of, and to prevent and detect criminal activity, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in, VHA programs and operations. And report on problems or deficiencies encountered in VHA programs and operations and recommend corrective actions.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Prohibition on Use of Funds for the Participation of Certain Chinese Officials in Conferences, Exchanges, Programs, and Activities Title II: Authorization of Appropriations for Increased Funding for Radio Free Asia and Voice of America Title III: Miscellaneous Provisions Title I: Prohibition on Use of Funds for the Participation of Certain Chinese Officials in Conferences, Exchanges, Programs, and Activities - Prohibits certain US agencies from funding the travel and per diem expenses of certain nationals of the People's Republic of China for participation in conferences, exchanges, programs, and activities. Title II: Authorization of Appropriations for Increased Funding for Radio Free Asia and Voice of America - Authorizes appropriations for International Broadcasting Activities for FY 1998 and 1999 in addition to sums previously authorized. Details allocation of such additional appropriations for Radio Free Asia. Instructs the Director of the United States Information Agency and the Board of Broadcasting Governors to seek to ensure that funds made available for broadcasting to nations whose people do not fully enjoy freedom of expression do not decline in proportion to amounts made available for broadcasting to other nations. Directs the President to report to the Congress on a plan to achieve continuous broadcasting of Radio Free Asia and Voice of America in multiple major dialects and languages to the People's Republic of China. Reduces authorization of appropriations for FY 1998 and 1999 for Migration and Refugee Assistance. Title III: Miscellaneous Provisions - Authorizes appropriations for FY 1998 and 1999 to support personnel in the United States Embassy in Beijing as well as in selected American consulates to monitor political repression in the People's Republic of China. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the President should make freedom of religion one of the major objectives of US foreign policy with respect to China. (2) the Department of State should raise the issue of individuals imprisoned or otherwise harassed by the Chinese Government on religious grounds and request a complete and timely response from the Chinese Government regarding the individuals' whereabouts and condition, the charges against them, and the sentence imposed. And (3) the goal of official communications should be the expeditious release of all religious prisoners in China and the end of religious harassment and repression.
Interstate Transport Act of 2017 This bill permits an individual to transport a knife for any lawful purpose between two places where it is legal to possess and carry such knife. The individual must comply with specified requirements. The bill prohibits the arrest or detention of an individual for a knife violation unless there is probable cause to believe the individual failed to comply with specified requirements. An individual may assert compliance with this bill's requirements as a claim or defense in any civil or criminal action or proceeding.
Children's Bicycle Helmet Safety Act of 1993 - Authorizes the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to make grants to States, political subdivisions, and nonprofit organizations for programs that require or encourage individuals under age 16 to wear approved bicycle helmets. Specifies that such grants may be used to: (1) enforce a law that requires such individuals to wear approved bicycle helmets, (2) assist such individuals to acquire such helmets. And (3) develop and adminster a program to educate such individuals and their families on the importance of wearing such helmets. Sets interim standards for bicycle helmets and provides that a helmet that does not conform shall be considered in violation of a consumer product safety standard promulgated under the Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA). Directs the Consumer Product Safety Commission to begin a proceeding to review the requirements of the interim standards and establish a final standard that includes provisions to protect against the risk of helmets coming off the heads of bicycle riders and to address the risk of injury to children. Specifies that the final standard shall be considered a consumer product safety standard under the CPSA. Authorizes appropriations.
Stop the Misuse of ITINs Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to require the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) notify the Secretary of Homeland Security of any employer tax return which shows wages paid to an employee who is not authorized to be employed in the United States. And (2) provide a written notice to the employer and employee involved that such employment is illegal and must be terminated within 30 days after the date of said notice. Allows any employee who receives a notice to contest such notice and provide documentation substantiating such employee's claimed authorization to work in the United States.
Cleaning Product Labeling Act of 2017 This bill requires chemically formulated cleaning products to bear a label with, and requires manufacturers to include on their Internet websites, a list of all of the product's ingredients in descending order of predominance by weight, except that ingredients that constitute less than 1 of the product can be listed at the end in any order. Product websites must include: (1) the CAS Registry Number of each ingredient, and (2) an explanation of each ingredient's purpose. A product that is not in conformity with the labeling and website listing requirements shall be treated as: (1) a misbranded hazardous substance under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act if it is under the jurisdiction of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), or (2) a violation of rules under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 if it is under the jurisdiction of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The CPSC and OSHA must issue regulations to enforce this bill. A person may petition the CPSC or OSHA to investigate claims that a product does not satisfy these requirements.
Comprehensive Immunosuppressive Drug Coverage for Kidney Transplant Patients Act of 2007 - Amends SSA title II (OASDI) to: (1) continue entitlement to prescription drugs used in immunosuppressive therapy furnished to an individual who receives a kidney transplant for which payment is made under Medicare. And (2) extend Medicare secondary payer requirements for end stage renal disease (ESRD) beneficiaries. Amends title XVIII (Medicare ) of SSA to apply special rules to kidney transplant recipients receiving additional coverage for immunosuppressive drugs. Deems such individual to be enrolled under Medicare part B. Makes him or her responsible for the full amount of the applicable premiums. Applies deductible and coinsurance requirements to the provision of such drugs. Amends the Public Health Service Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), and the Internal Revenue Code to set forth requirements for group health plans to provide coverage of immunosuppressive drugs for kidney transplant patients.
Department of Environmental Protection Act - Redesignates the Environmental Protection Agency as an executive department, the Department of Environmental Protection, to be headed by a Secretary of Environmental Protection who shall be appointed by the President.
Social Investment and Economic Development Fund for the Americas Act of 2003 - Sets forth the policy of the United States to: (1) promote market-based principles, economic integration, social development, and trade in and between countries of the Americas. And (2) establish an investment fund for the Western Hemisphere to advance the national interests of the United States, improve the lives of the poor and marginalized, encourage broad-based economic growth while protecting the environment, build human capital and knowledge, support meaningful participation in democratic institutions and processes, and promote peace and justice in the Americas. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to require the President to provide assistance to reduce poverty and foster increased economic opportunity in the countries of the Western Hemisphere by: (1) nurturing public-private partnerships and microenterprise development. (2) improving the quality of life and investing in human capital. (3) strengthening the rule of law through improved efficiency and transparency in government services. And (4) reducing poverty and eliminating the exclusion of marginalized populations. Establishes a technical review committee to review the projects proposed for assistance and to make recommendations to the President with respect to the guidelines to be used in evaluating project proposals and the suitability of the proposed projects for funding. Amends the Inter-American Development Bank Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US Executive Director at the Bank to urge the Bank to establish an account to be operated and administered consistent with the above guidelines. Establishes a technical review committee in the same manner as discussed above. Expresses the sense of Congress that the countries of the Western Hemisphere should collectively provide assistance equal to the amount of US bilateral and multilateral assistance provided.
Technology for the Classroom Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to eligible consortia to develop instructional programs and technology-based systems for complete courses or units of study for a specific subject and grade level, if these are commercially unavailable locally. Requires that an eligible consortium consist of: (1) State or local educational agencies in partnership with businesses. And (2) institutions of higher education or other public or private nonprofit organizations. Requires priority to be given to applications describing programs that are developed: (1) so that the program may be adapted and applied nationally. And (2) to raise the achievement levels of students, particularly disadvantaged students who are not realizing their potential. Authorizes the Secretary to award grants to: (1) identify schools or school districts which have a large number of educationally disadvantaged students and limited access to technology-based learning resources. And (2) develop jointly, with local educational agencies or individual schools, strategies to improve accessibility and use of technology-based learning resources, including specific plans for teacher and school personnel training, hardware or software acquisition , and partnership arrangements with businesses, institutions of higher education, and other public or private nonprofit organizations. Sets forth State plan requirements. Directs the Secretary to: (1) coordinate and share information regarding these curriculum-based educational technology programs with other Federal agencies. And (2) collect and disseminate information about such developed products and their evaluation. Requires that any royalties paid to any State or local educational agency as a result of assistance provided under this Act be used for further development of curriculum-based learning resources authorized by this Act. Authorizes appropriations.
Medicare Ambulance Access, Fraud Prevention, and Reform Act of 2014 - Amends part B of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act with respect to the ambulance fee schedule to: (1) increase the conversion factor for ground ambulance services in the formula for determining the appropriate fee, and (2) increase the mileage rate for such services. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to study how the conversion factor should be modified, if at all, to take into account the cost of providing ambulance services in urban, rural, and super-rural areas. Directs the Secretary to establish a process to determine, in advance of furnishing end stage renal disease (ESRD) ambulance services, whether payment for them may not be made because they are not covered or because they are excluded from coverage. Prohibits any payment unless the Secretary determines, pursuant to this process, that the service meets coverage requirements. Directs the Secretary to develop a data collection system for providers and suppliers of ambulance services to collect cost, revenue, utilization, and other appropriate information.
Energy Freedom and Economic Prosperity Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal: (1) the excise tax credits for alcohol fuel, biodiesel, and alternative fuel mixtures. (2) the tax credits for the purchase of alternative motor vehicles and new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicles, (3) the alternative fuel vehicle refueling property tax credit. (4) the income tax credits for alcohol, biodiesel, and renewable diesel used as fuel. (5) the enhanced oil recovery tax credit and the tax credit for producing oil and gas from marginal wells. (6) the tax credits for producing electricity from renewable resources and from advanced nuclear power facilities, (7) the tax credit for carbon dioxide sequestration, (8) the energy tax credit. And (9) the tax credits for investment in qualifying advanced coal projects and qualifying gasification projects. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe a flat income tax rate for corporations, in lieu of the existing marginal tax rates, based upon the overall revenue savings from the repeal of energy tax expenditures by this Act.
Strengthen And Fortify Existing Bridges Act of 2013 or SAFE Bridges Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to establish a program to assist states to rehabilitate or replace bridges found to be structurally deficient, functionally obsolete, or fracture critical. Requires states to use apportioned program funds for projects to rehabilitate and replace such bridges. Sets the federal share of project costs at 100.
Civil Rights Act of 1964 Commemorative Coin Act - Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue, during 2014, up to 350,000 one-dollar coins designed to be emblematic of the enactment of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its contribution to civil rights in America. Requires sales to include a $10 surcharge per coin, which shall be paid to the United Negro College Fund.
Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to: (1) shorten to 48 months the period that a five-day waiting period and background check are to be imposed pending establishment of a national instant criminal background check system (system) for handgun transfers. And (2) provide that system check requirements shall not apply until notification by the Attorney General to licensees that the system is operational and capable of supplying information immediately. Makes the latter provision inapplicable to a firearm transfer between a licensee and another person who has presented a firearm permit meeting certain conditions. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) establish the system within 24 months after the enactment of such Act. And (2) notify each licensee in, and the chief law enforcement officer of, a State at any time of a determination that the State is in compliance with the timetable set for that State. Authorizes a prospective transferee to submit to the Attorney General information to correct, clarify, or supplement records of the system with respect to the prospective transferee. Requires the Attorney General to immediately consider the information, to investigate further, and to correct erroneous information and give notice of the error to any Federal department or agency or any State that was the source of such records. Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to include among State application requirements for drug control and system improvement grants a certification that the State has established a plan under which the State will provide the Department of Justice with notification of adjudications of persons as mental defectives and of commitments to mental institutions.
Hunt Unrestricted on National Treasures Act or HUNT Act - Requires each head of a federal public land management agency , to annually make available to the public on its website a report that includes: (1) a list of the land more than 640 acres in size under its jurisdiction on which the public is allowed to hunt, fish, or use such land for other recreational purposes and to which there is no public access or egress or to which such access or egress to the land's legal boundaries is significantly restricted. (2) a list of locations and acreage on such land that the agency head determines have significant potential for use for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes. And (3) a plan to provide such access and egress that is consistent with the travel management plan in effect. Requires each agency head to make available to the public on the agency's website, and thereafter revise, a list of roads or trails that provide the primary public access and egress to the legal boundaries of contiguous parcels of land equal to more than 640 acres in size under the agency's jurisdiction on which the public is allowed to hunt, fish, or use such lands for other recreational purposes. Amends the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 to require allotment from the Land and Water Conservation Fund of an amount not less than 1.5 of the moneys appropriated for projects that secure public access to federal land for hunting, fishing, and other recreational purposes through easements, rights-of-way, or fee title acquisitions from willing sellers.
Columbia River Restoration Act of 2010 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to direct the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) establish within EPA a Columbia River Program Team, located within the Oregon Operations Office for EPA's Region 10. And (2) appoint a Team Leader who shall be highly qualified to support the development and implementation of projects, programs, and studies necessary to implement the Columbia River Basin Toxics Reduction Action Plan developed by EPA and the Columbia River Toxics Reduction Working Group in 2010. Directs the Administrator, acting through the Team Leader, to: (1) assist and support the implementation of the Action Plan and the Estuary Partnership Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan adopted by EPA and the Governors of Oregon and Washington on October 20, 1999. (2) coordinate the implementation of, and the development of any updates to, those Plans, with programs and projects in the Middle and Upper Columbia River Basin, (3) make other appropriate updates. (4) provide funding and make grants for implementation consistent with Plan priorities. (5) promote innovative methodologies and technologies that are cost effective and consistent with Plan goals and objectives and EPA's permitting processes. (6) coordinate the major functions of the federal government related to Plan implementation, (7) coordinate authorized research and planning projects, (8) track progress toward meeting Plan goals and objectives. And (9) collect and make available to the public information regarding the environmental quality of the Lower Columbia River and Estuary. Requires the Administrator, through the Team Leader, to carry out projects, programs, and studies to implement the Plans. Authorizes the Administrator to give special emphasis to those projects, programs, and studies identified as priorities by the Estuary Partnership in the Plans. Authorizes the Administrator, through the Team Leader, to make grants to implement the Plans. Sets forth requirements regarding grant allocations and the federal share of costs. Directs the President, as part of his annual budget submission to Congress, to submit information regarding each federal agency involved in protection and restoration of the Columbia River Basin.
Preventing Overdoses While in Emergency Departments Act of 2018 This bill requires the Department of Health and Human Services to establish a grant program to: (1) develop protocols for discharging patients who are treated for a drug overdose, and (2) enhance the integration and coordination of postdischarge care and treatment options for individuals with a substance use disorder.
Telecommunications Economic Opportunity Act of 1995 - Directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to require each provider of telecommunications services (provider) to submit annually a detailed and verifiable plan for increasing its procurement from businesses that are owned by minorities and women in all categories of procurement in which minorities are underrepresented. Requires each provider to report annually to the FCC regarding implementation of programs established under this Act. Directs the FCC to report annually to the Congress on the progress of activities undertaken by each provider. Directs the FCC to establish regulations for: (1) implementing programs under this Act. And (2) verifying and determining the eligibility of businesses owned by minorities and women. Requires each provider and its affiliates to develop and implement an outreach program to inform and recruit eligible businesses to apply for procurement contracts under this Act. Allows for the waiver of such requirements when their application to a provider results in undue hardship or unreasonable expense. Provides sanctions and remedies in the case of: (1) a business that falsely represents itself as a business owned by minorities or women. Or (2) a provider which makes false representations in its annual report to the FCC or in its implementation of programs under this Act. Prohibits discrimination against eligible businesses attempting to procure contracts from telephone utilities. Authorizes civil actions by eligible businesses to enforce the provisions of this Act.
Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 - Directs the President to submit to the appropriate congressional committees a regional strategy to guide US support for multilateral efforts to eliminate the threat to civilians and regional stability posed by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and to enforce the rule of law and ensure full humanitarian access in LRA-affected areas. Authorizes the President to provide assistance to respond to the humanitarian needs of populations in northeastern Congo, southern Sudan, and Central African Republic affected by LRA activity. Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State and Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) should work with the appropriate congressional committees to increase future assistance to Uganda if the government of Uganda demonstrates a commitment to reconstruction in war-affected areas of northern and eastern Uganda. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should support efforts by the people of northern Uganda and the government of Uganda to: (1) promote local and national reconciliation including mechanisms outlined in the Annexure to the Agreement on Accountability and Reconciliation between the government of Uganda and the LRA. And (2) assist internally displaced people, establish mechanisms for the demobilization and reintegration of former combatants, and enhance the competency of local institutions including the police.
American Cures Act This bill amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to require certain adjustments to discretionary spending limits in FY2016-FY2021 to accommodate increases in appropriations for agencies that perform biomedical research. Adjustments are required for the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention, the Department of Defense health program, and the Department of Veterans Affairs medical and prosthetics research program. The bill also requires annual appropriations for each of the programs and agencies referenced in this bill to be at least the amount appropriated in FY2015. The bill exempts appropriations provided pursuant to this bill from sequestration. Sequestration is a process of automatic, usually across-the-board spending reductions under which budgetary resources are permanently cancelled to enforce specific budget policy goals.
Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to issue new term grazing permits for National Forest System lands to replace previously issued expired or expiring permits.
Gun Show Background Check Act of 2008 - Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to require registration of gun show promoters and to set forth the responsibilities of promoters, licensees, and other transferors. Provides that if any part of a firearm transaction takes place at a gun show, each licensed importer, manufacturer, and dealer who transfers one or more firearms to a person who is not licensed shall, within ten days after the transfer, submit a report of the transfer to the Attorney General. Sets forth penalties for violations. Grants the Attorney General authority to enter the place of business of any gun show promoter and any place where a gun show is held, during business hours and without a showing of reasonable cause or a warrant, for purposes of examining records and the inventory of licensees conducting business to determine compliance with this Act. Increases penalties for: (1) serious record-keeping violations by licensees, and (2) violations of criminal background check requirements.
Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) designate not more than five facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs as locations for centers of mental health services research, education and training, and the development and implementation of innovative clinical activities and systems of care with respect to the delivery of such services by the Department, (2) subject to appropriations, establish and operate such centers, (3) designate one such center by January 1, 1996. And (4) ensure that such centers are located in various geographic regions. Requires the official within the Central Office of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) responsible for mental health and behavioral science matters to establish a panel to assess the scientific and clinical merit of proposals submitted to the Secretary for the establishment of new centers. Requires at least three centers to emphasize research into improving the quality of care provided to mentally ill veterans through the development of community-based alternatives to institutional treatment. Requires the Under Secretary for Health of the Department to ensure that useful information produced by activities at the centers is disseminated throughout the VHA. Authorizes appropriations. Requires reports.
Amends the Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act of 2000 to make as one of its purposes that in implementation of this Act at least 50 percent of all microenterprise assistance be targeted to the very poor, that is, those persons living either in the bottom 50 percent below the poverty line or on less than the equivalent of one dollar per day. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to revise congressional findings and policy with respect to the micro- and small enterprise development credits program to declare that it is in the best interests of the United States to assist the access to financial services and the development of microenterprises in developing countries, and to engage the US private sector in such process. Authorizes the President to provide assistance to increase the availability of financial services to microenterprise households lacking full access to credit, including through: (1) loans and guarantees to microfinance institutions for the purpose of expanding the availability of savings and credit to poor and low-income households. (2) training programs to enable microfinance institutions to better meet the financial services needs of their clients. And (3) training programs to enable clients to make better use of credit, increase their financial literacy, and to better manage their enterprises. Revises program eligibility criteria to require the Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering such program to establish criteria for determining which microfinance institutions are eligible to carry out program activities with respect to microenterprise households assisted under this Act. Limits the use of such assistance to support programs for microenterprise households. Authorizes appropriations through FY 2004. Revises congressional findings and policy with respect to the microenterprise development grant assistance program to declare that: (1) access to financial services and the development of microenterprise are vital factors in the stable growth of developing countries, and therefore it is in the best interest of the United States to facilitate access to financial services and assist the development of microenterprise in developing countries. (2) access to such services and the development of microenterprises can be supported by programs providing credit, savings, training, technical assistance, business development services, and other financial and non-financial services. And (3) microenterprise programs should target both rural and urban poor given the high percentage of population living, and incidence of poverty, in such areas. Urges the President to continue support for central mechanisms and missions that, among other things, support the development of nonprofit global microfinance networks, including credit union systems, that are able to deliver financial services to poor entrepreneurs through a significant grassroots infrastructure based on market principles, and act as wholesale intermediaries providing a range of services to microenterprise retail institutions. Declares that, in order to maximize the sustainable development impact of microenterprise development grant assistance, the Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering such assistance shall establish a monitoring system that, among other things, adopts the widespread use of proven and effective poverty assessment tools to successfully identify the very poor and ensure that they receive needed microenterprise loans, savings, and assistance. Requires the Administrator of the US Agency for International Development (AID) to develop and certify no fewer than two low-cost methods for partner institutions to use to assess the poverty levels of their current or prospective clients for purposes of the provision of microenterprise development grant assistance. Directs the Administrator to require all organizations applying for microenterprise assistance under this Act to use one of the certified methods to determine and report the poverty levels of such clients and to demonstrate their ability to reach the very poor. Authorizes appropriations through FY 2004. Directs the Administrator to submit to Congress a report that documents the process of developing and applying poverty assessment procedures with its partners. Directs the Administrator to submit annually to Congress a report that addresses AID's compliance with the Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act of 2000 by documenting: (1) the percentage of its resources that were allocated to the very poor based on data collected from its partners using the certified methods, and (2) the absolute number of the very poor reached.
Reduce Unnecessary Spending Act of 2010 - Amends the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 to require the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to transmit, within 45 calendar days after enactment of the funding in question, a message to Congress with specified information requesting any rescission the President proposes under the procedures in this Act. Prescribes requirements for timing and packaging of rescission requests. Authorizes OMB, subject to a specified time limit, to withhold funding from obligation temporarily if the President proposes a rescission. Prohibits the President from invoking such expedited procedures or such authority to withhold funding on more than one occasion for any Act providing funding. Sets forth procedures for expedited congressional consideration of proposed rescissions.
Government Travel Cost Reduction Act - Amends Federal law governing air travel of Federal employees and Members of Congress to mandate that a Federal or congressional agency include in its contract with an air carrier: (1) the establishment of a separate air travel business account for employees travelling on official agency business. And (2) deposit into the employee's air travel business account any travel bonuses awarded by the carrier.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Trade Remedy Actions Title II: Extension and Modification of Fair Trade in Auto Parts Act Fair Trade in Motor Vehicle Parts Act of 1993 - Title I: Trade Remedy Actions - Declares that any act, policy, or practice of a deficit foreign country that adversely affects the access to its market of US motor vehicle parts shall, for purposes of 301 action under the Trade Act of 1974, be considered as an act, policy, or practice that is unjustifiable and burdens or restricts US commerce. Directs the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to determine what action to take under the Act to eliminate such act, policy, or practice. Requires an agenda for negotiations with countries the USTR has taken action against to include: (1) a certain percentage of guaranteed sales in the deficit foreign country's market of US motor vehicle parts. (2) the elimination or modification of the aspects of such country's motor vehicle distribution system that act as a barrier to US motor vehicle parts. And (3) the exchange between such country and the United States of information concerning bilateral trade in such parts. Requires the USTR to make certain estimates with respect to the current percentage of such country's market for motor vehicle parts that is accounted for by US motor vehicle parts. Requires the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to commence an antidumping duty investigation to determine if imports of motor vehicle parts from a deficit foreign country, or sales of such imports, constitute grounds for the imposition of antidumping duties. Title II: Extension and Modification of Fair Trade in Auto Parts Act - Amends the Fair Trade in Auto Parts Act of 1988 to extend such Act through December 31, 1998. Directs the Secretary, among other things, to coordinate: (1) US policy regarding auto parts and the market for auto parts by the Japanese. And (2) the sharing of data and market information among US agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Justice, the Department of Commerce, and the Office of the USTR.
Frontline Medical Education Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act with respect to: (1) services of interns and residents at federally-qualified health centers and Medicare payments for graduate medical education. (2) Medicare payment for direct graduate medical education costs of such centers. And (3) waiver of the application of productivity screens for such centers receiving medical education payments.
Federal Energy Price Protection Act - Prohibits a supplier from increasing the price for crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillates by an unconscionable amount in an area during the period covered by a Presidential proclamation that an abnormal market disruption has occurred. States that such prohibition does not apply to the extent that the price increase is substantially attributable to: (1) an increase in the wholesale cost of crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillates to a supplier. (2) an increase in the replacement costs for crude oil, gasoline, or petroleum distillate sold, (3) an increase in operational costs. Or (4) local, regional, national, or international market conditions. States that a violation of this Act shall: (1) be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice of the Federal Trade Commission Act. And (2) be subject to civil and criminal penalties. States that fines and penalties collected under this Act shall be deposited in the Consumer Relief Trust Fund to provide assistance under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) Program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Fixed Asset Relief Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to increase the additional depreciation allowance from 50 to 100 of the adjusted basis of qualifying business property and to make such increased allowance permanent.
Amends the Siletz Tribe Indian Restoration Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to take into trust for the Siletz Tribe additional lands that lie within the original 1855 Siletz Coast Reservation and are located in Benton, Douglas, Lane, Lincoln, Tillamook, or Yamhill County in Oregon. Requires such land to be considered and evaluated as an on-reservation acquisition and become part of the Tribe's reservation if the county in which the land is located submits a written approval of such evaluation and consideration to the Secretary. Prohibits gaming on lands taken into trust pursuant to this Act.
National Advisory Commission on Tax Reform and Simplification Act of 2001 - Establishes within the legislative branch a National Advisory Commission on Tax Reform and Simplification which shall review and, when applicable, issue proposals on: (1) the present structure and provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. (2) whether tax systems imposed under the laws of other countries could provide more efficient, simple, and fair methods of funding the revenue requirements of the Government. (3) whether the income tax should be replaced with a tax imposed in a different manner or on a different base. And (4) whether the Internal Revenue Code can be simplified, absent wholesale restructuring or replacement. Authorizes appropriations for the Commission. Terminates the Commission after the submission of a report.
Defense Reinvestment and High-Tech Job Creation Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for defense conversion equal to the defense conversion employment credit and the defense conversion investment credit . Makes qualified excess defense conversion property eligible for the straight-line depreciation method and classifies it as five-year depreciable property.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Alternative Fuels - General Title II: Alternative Fuels - Non-Federal Programs Title III: Availability and Use of Replacement Fuels, Alternative Fuels, and Alternative Fueled Vehicles Biodiesel Energy Development Act of 1997 - Title I: Alternative Fuels - General - Amends the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to modify definitions relating to alternative fuels, dual-fueled vehicles, heavy duty motor vehicles, and marine vessels. Amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act with respect to alternative fuel use by light duty Federal vehicles to provide that if such vehicles are not acquired from original equipment manufacturers, existing fleet vehicles may be converted to use alternative fuels at the time of a major vehicle overhaul or rebuild. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 1992 to require the Secretary of Energy (Secretary), if appropriate, to permit a Federal fleet to: (1) acquire one heavy duty alternative fueled vehicle in place of two light duty alternative fueled vehicles. And (2) take an additional credit for the purchase and documented use of alternative fuel used in a dual-fueled vehicle, comparable conventionally-fueled motor vehicle, or marine vessel. Title II: Alternative Fuels - Non-Federal Programs - Requires State and local alternative fuel incentives programs to include the goal of introducing substantial numbers of light and heavy duty alternative fuels vehicles and increasing the use of alternative fuels. Conditions State eligibility for Federal assistance upon inclusion in each State plan of an examination of the introduction of converted or acquired light and heavy duty alternative fueled vehicles in State-owned or operated motor vehicle fleets. Authorizes the Secretary to provide, upon State request, Federal financial assistance grants for the incremental purchase cost of alternative fuels. Directs the Secretary to report annually to the President and the Congress on the volume of alternative fuel consumed. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to provide financial assistance to States and political subdivisions for the incremental cost of alternative fuels used in flexible fueled school buses and school bus conversions to alternative fueled vehicles. Requires the Secretary to study and report to Congress on alternative fuel use in marine vessels. Title III: Availability and Use of Replacement Fuels, Alternative Fuels, and Alternative Fueled Vehicles - Modifies the mandate for alternative fuel providers to include regulation of heavy duty trucks. Cites circumstances under which the Secretary may allow the conversion of an existing fleet vehicle into a dual-fueled alternative fueled vehicle at the time of a major vehicle overhaul or rebuild. Directs the Secretary to: (1) include heavy duty motor vehicles in the program to promote the development and use in light duty motor vehicles of domestic replacement fuels. And (2) review every five years a development plan and production goals for replacement fuel supply and demand. Modifies the fleet program purchase goals to require that specified percentages of new light duty motor vehicles acquired in each model year be acquired as, or converted into, alternative fueled vehicles. Modifies the fleet requirement program to direct the Secretary to permit fleets to substitute the acquisition or conversion of one heavy duty alternative fueled vehicle for two light duty vehicle acquisitions to meet program requirements. Permits a fleet owner to convert an existing fleet vehicle into an alternative fueled vehicle, and purchase the fuel for such vehicle for compliance purposes, if the original equipment manufacturer's warranty continues to apply to the vehicle. Allows a fleet owner a credit for such conversion. Instructs the Secretary to allocate a credit to a fleet or covered person that acquires a volume of alternative fuel equal to the estimated need for one year for any dual-fueled vehicle acquired or converted under this Act. Sets forth a credit allocation scheme for dual-fueled vehicles and alternative fuel. Requires the Secretary to submit to the Congress recommended requirements for exempting replacement fuels from taxes levied on non-replacement fuels if the Secretary notifies the Congress that a fleet requirement program is not necessary.
Small Business Access to Capital Act of 2009 - Amends the Small Business Act to increase maximum loan amounts under the following Small Business Administration (SBA) programs: (1) the section 7(a) loan program, (2) the Microloan program. And (3) the section 504 program. Amends provisions of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 relating to the local development business loan program to allow a small business borrower under such program to refinance a previous business debt, under specified conditions. Applies single-business investment limits to SBA-recognized new markets venture capital companies. Amends the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to earmark certain Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) funds for specified programs of the National Institutes of Health. Repeals as of October 1, 2010: (1) the increase in section 7(a) loan amounts. And (2) the business debt refinancing authority under the local development business loan program.
Directs: (1) the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate to arrange for the presentation of a congressional gold medal to the family of the late Raul Julia in recognition of his dedication to ending world hunger and his great contributions to the Latino community and the performing arts. And (2) the Secretary of the Treasury to transfer half of the amount by which the sum of any gifts and donations received and any proceeds from the sale of duplicate medals exceeds the costs incurred in carrying out this Act to the New York Public Theater and half to the New York Shakespeare Festival.
Sex Offender Registration Tips Program Act of 2009 or the SORT Act of 2009 - Directs the Attorney General to: (1) provide grants and access to information and resources to Parents for Megan's Law, Inc. to implement the Sex Offender Registration Tips Program. And (2) ensure access by Parents for Megan's Law, Inc. to the National Crime Information Center databases operated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).
Renewable Energy Act for Credit on Taxes - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a refundable limited credit through tax year 2006 for expenditures for qualifying renewable energy property installed on or in connection with a US-sited residential or nonresidential structure.
Contributions Legally Interdicted from Noncitizens To Our Nonprofits Act of 2016 or the CLINTON Act of 2016 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to prohibit a federal official organization from being treated as a tax-exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) for any period after the date on which the organization knowingly or willingly accepts or solicits any contribution from any person connected to a foreign government. A tax-exempt organization is a quot, federal official organizationquot. If one or more current or former specified federal officials established, control, or actively participate in the management of the organization. If the organization accepts a contribution from any person and learns that that the person is connected to a foreign government after the acceptance, it will not be treated as knowingly or willingly accepting the contribution if the contribution is returned within 30 days of learning of the status of the person. The bill imposes a tax on any federal official organization that knowingly or willingly accepts any contribution from any person connected to any foreign government in an amount equal to the amount of the contribution.
Uzbekistan Freedom Promotion Act of 2005 - Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to prohibit assistance, with specified exceptions, to the government of Uzbekistan unless the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the government of Uzbekistan: (1) is cooperating with an independent international inquiry into the Andijan violence, has ceased pressuring the government of Kyrgyzstan to return the refugees who fled the massacre, and is prosecuting responsible individuals. And (2) has accelerated democratic reforms and fulfilled its human rights obligations. Prohibits visa issuance to any official of the government of Uzbekistan who is credibly alleged to have ordered, acquiesced to, or participated in human rights abuses or corruption unless the Secretary of State certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the visa issuance is in US national security interests. Directs the President to: (1) freeze the financial assets and other economic resources in the United States of any official of the government of Uzbekistan who is credibly alleged to have ordered, acquiesced to, or participated in human rights abuses, including the massacre in Andijan.. (2) prohibit munitions or dual use exports to Uzbekistan unless the President certifies that the government of Uzbekistan has met the requirements of the first paragraph above. (3) expedite US admission of any Uzbekistan national who is under threat of severe penalty as a result of participating in pro-democracy activities, including Uzbekistan citizens who have fled to Kyrgyzstan. And (4) transmit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to move all US military operations from Uzbekistan.
Truck Safety Act This bill increases from $750,000 to $1.5 million the minimum level of financial responsibility required to satisfy liability covering public liability, property damage, and environmental restoration for the transportation of property by a commercial motor carrier in the United States or to a place outside the United States. The Department of Transportation (DOT) must increase, by regulation, the minimum level of financial responsibility for transporting property or passengers if the current amount is insufficient to satisfy liability claims. DOT shall initiate a rulemaking to establish a federal motor vehicle safety standard requiring a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating greater than 26,000 pounds to be equipped with crash avoidance and mitigation systems. DOT shall finalize regulations to require such a motor vehicle also to be equipped with an electronic control module requiring the speed to be set by the manufacturer at a maximum 70 m. p. h. DOT must ensure that a review is completed on each motor carrier that demonstrates through performance data that it poses the highest safety risk, especially whenever it is among the highest risk carriers for two consecutive months. DOT shall require, with respect to driver compensation, that a motor carrier: track the on-duty time of an employee whose base compensation is calculated in a manner other than an hourly wage and who is required to keep a record of duty status under the hours of service regulations. And separately compensate the employee for any on-duty time period at an hourly rate not less than the federal minimum wage rate under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. This compensation requirement, however, shall not apply where employment is governed by a collective bargaining agreement, negotiated by bona fide employee representatives, if the agreement governs, and compensates the employee for, all hours of on-duty time. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration shall study the effects of excessive commuting on safety and commercial motor vehicle driver fatigue.
National Commission for the New National Goal: The Advancement of Global Health Act - Establishes the National Commission for the New National Goal: The Advancement of Global Health to report to the President and the Congress concerning a national strategy for coordinating governmental, academic, and public and private health care entities for the purpose of the global eradication of disease. Terminates the Commission 30 days after the submission of its final report.
Reinvigorating Antibiotic and Diagnostic Innovation Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow tax credits for 50 of the clinical testing expenses for: (1) infectious disease products that are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening infection, including one caused by an antibacterial or antifungal resistant pathogen or a qualifying pathogen listed by the Department of Health and Human Services as having the potential to pose a serious threat to public health. And (2) in-vitro diagnostic devices that identify in less than four hours the presence, concentration, or characteristics of a serious or life-threatening infection.
Education Tax Credit Simplification Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise the Hope and Lifetime Learning Tax Credits. Combines both credits into an Education Credit that allows certain students a tax credit of 50 percent of their qualified higher education expenses and educational expenses to acquire or improve job skills, up to $3,000 per year. Eliminates the annual cost of living adjustments to the allowable credit amount.
Campaign Truth and Fairness Act of 1997 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to prohibit a national committee or a congressional campaign committee of a political party from soliciting or accepting contributions or transfers not subject to the limitations, prohibitions, and reporting requirements of such Act . Specifies exceptions and inclusions, including get-out-the-vote activities. Specifies permitted State Party Grassroots Fund expenditures. Sets forth specified contribution and expenditure exclusions. Increases individual contribution limits to a candidate and his or her political committee, and decreases similar multicandidate political committee limits, to $2,500. Limits personal contributions by a candidate for the House of Representatives to $100,000 per campaign cycle.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Independent Commission on Medicare Title II: Controlling Outlays Under Medicare Program Commission to Save Medicare Act of 1995 - Title I: Independent Commission on Medicare - Establishes the Independent Commission on Medicare to: (1) report to the Congress and the President during December of each year on certain aspects of the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act involving projected outlays and benefits. And (2) report to the Congress during July of each year specific recommendations on certain changes to ensure that total program outlays for the fiscal year involved do not exceed specified limits. Precludes such recommendations from including changes relating to the payment of payroll taxes for financing the program. Provides procedures for expedited congressional consideration of recommendations. Title II: Controlling Outlays Under Medicare Program - Provides that Congress, not later than April 15 of each year, shall, in the concurrent resolution on the budget for the following fiscal year, establish a limit on total outlays to be made under the Medicare program for the fiscal year involved. Provides for the enforcement of such limits through sequestration under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 .
American Livestock Protection and Ranching Opportunity Act of 2014 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: the majority of consumers in the United States want to know where animals used to produce the meat eaten are born, raised, and slaughtered. Country-of-origin labeling provides information that consumers have a right to know. And country-of-origin labeling facilitates supply chain information critical for food safety. Amends the Animal Health Protection Act to prohibit the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) from allowing or advancing regulations that allow the importation of fresh meat and meat products from a country until the Secretary certifies to Congress that a country is free of foot-and-mouth disease without vaccination. Amends the Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998 to establish a USDA livestock disease initiative to provide competitive grants for research and development related to surveillance methods, vaccines, vaccination delivery systems, or diagnostic tests for diseases in domestic livestock that present a potential concern to public health and safety. Makes federal agencies, national laboratories, institutions of higher education, research institutions, and state agricultural experiment stations eligible for grants. Amends the Agricultural Act of 2014 to provide eligible livestock producers with assistance for losses due to brucellosis and to alter the payment rates USDA uses to provide agricultural disaster assistance under the Livestock Indemnity Program and the Livestock Forage Disaster Program.
Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to revise due process standards governing the accreditation process of educational institutions. Requires accrediting agencies and associations to provide educational institutions with: (1) written notice of deficiencies and a reasonable time period to correct such deficiencies. (2) advance notice of any adverse action and an opportunity for a hearing. And (3) a right to appeal an adverse action to an independent and impartial arbitration panel. Requires accrediting agencies and associations to: (1) ensure consistent application of accreditation standards to an educational institution's governing board in receivership. And (2) allow public access to meetings involving accreditation recommendations. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to issue regulations to further define due process requirements for the accreditation process.
Precision Agriculture Research, Education, and Information Dissemination Act of 1996 - Amends the Competitive, Special, and Facilities Research Grant Act to emphasize competitive grants that promote precision agriculture research projects and to promote dissemination of such projects' results. Provides for the establishment of multistate and national agriculture partnerships, including existing partnerships between national laboratories and the Department of Agriculture. Amends the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 to include precision agriculture within the research categories of the Fund for Rural America.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Improve the Federal Helium Program Title II: Improve Minerals Management Service Royalty Collection Title III: Phase Out the Mineral Institute Program Department of the Interior Reform and Savings Act of 1993 - Title I: Improve the Federal Helium Program - Amends the Helium Act Amendments of 1960 to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) reduce costs and increase operational efficiencies. And (2) set fees charged private industry for storage, transmission, and withdrawal of privately-owned helium from Federal storage facilities to compensate fully for all costs incurred. Directs the Secretary to: (1) make helium sales in a manner that avoids undue disruption of the usual helium market and protects the United States against avoidable loss. (2) sell helium at prices comparable to those set by private industry. And (3) develop a long-term comprehensive plan to cancel the outstanding debt owed to the Treasury related to the Federal helium program, and to improve Federal helium program operations. Title II: Improve Minerals Management Service Royalty Collection - Requires the Secretary to direct the Minerals Management Service, Royalty Management Program, to develop and implement: (1) an automated business information system to provide its auditors a lease history. (2) optimum methods to identify and resolve anomalies and to verify royalty payments, (3) new royalty compliance and enforcement measures. And (4) other actions necessary to reduce royalty underpayment and increase revenues by a specified amount. Amends the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 to authorize the Secretary to assess a penalty of ten percent of the amount of underreported royalty, and 20 percent of the amount of substantially underreported royalty. Title III: Phase Out the Mineral Institute Program - Directs the Secretary to phase out the Mining and Mineral Resources Research Institute Act of 1984 by the end of FY 1998.
Internet Fairness and Interstate Responsibility Act or Net FAIR Act - Prohibits a State or political subdivision thereof from imposing, assessing, or attempting to collect any tax on the Internet or Internet-related services or on their use. Preserves State and local taxing authority with respect to income, license, and sales or use taxes. Terminates such prohibition on December 31, 2001. Establishes the Commission on Internet Taxation and Regulation to: (1) study the taxation and regulation of the Internet and Internet-related services under State and local law and identify any inconsistencies. (2) recommend appropriate modification to current Federal and State statutes concerning such services. (3) propose model legislation relating to commercial transactions on the Internet in order to facilitate their uniform treatment under Federal and State law, and (4) report to the Congress and the President.
Restoring Investor Confidence Act of 2002 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise rules concerning capital gain for taxpayers other than corporations to establish a new general rule which provides that if for any taxable year a taxpayer other than a corporation has a capital gain, 55 percent of such gain shall be a deduction from gross income. Excludes from individual gross income 55 percent of dividends received from a domestic corporation.
Patent and Trademark Office Authorization Act of 2002 - Authorizes appropriations to the US Patent and Trademark Office for salaries and expenses for FY 2003 through 2008 in an amount equal to all patent and trademark fees estimated by the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to be collected in each such fiscal year. Requires the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and the Director of the Office (Director), by February 15 of each fiscal year, to report an estimate of all fees to be collected in the next fiscal year to the chairman and ranking member of specified congressional committees. Requires the Director, by December 1, 2004, to complete the development of an electronic system for the filing and processing of patent and trademark applications that: (1) is user friendly. And (2) includes the necessary infrastructure to allow examiners and applicants to send all communications electronically, and the Office to process, maintain, and search electronically the contents and history of each application. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2003 and 2004 for development of such system. Requires the Secretary, in each of the five calendar years following the enactment of this Act, to report to specified congressional committees on the progress made in implementing the 21st Century Strategic Plan issued on June 3, 2002, and on any amendments made to it. Amends Federal patent law to provide that previous citation by or to, or consideration by the Office of, a patent or printed publication does not preclude the existence of a substantial new question of patentability in patent reexamination proceedings. Revises requirements for appeals in inter partes reexamination proceedings to allow a third-party requester to appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or be a party to any appeal taken by the patent owner, with respect to any final decision favorable to the patentability of any original or proposed amended or new claim of the patent. Allows a third-party requester to appeal a decision of the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences. Provides that a third-party requester in an inter partes reexamination proceeding dissatisfied with the final decision in an appeal to the Board may appeal the decision only to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require the Secretary of the Interior, within 30 days after being served with a complaint in an action alleging a failure to perform an act or duty related to an endangered species or threatened species determination, to publish the complaint. Prohibits the failure of the Secretary to meet such deadline from being the basis for such an action. Sets forth requirements concerning the intervention in such actions by affected parties and referral to a mediation program. Authorizes the court, in issuing any final order in such an action, to award litigation costs to any party. Prohibits the court from: (1) awarding litigation costs in any proposed covered settlement, (2) granting a motion that is based on a proposed covered settlement or other consent decree that includes payment for litigation costs, (3) approving a proposed covered settlement unless each state and county in which the Secretary believes a species occurs approves it, or (4) granting a motion that is based on a proposed covered settlement unless such settlement is approved by each such state and county. Requires the courts to ensure that such a settlement is approved by each such state and county. Requires the Secretary to provide notice of a proposed covered settlement to each such state and county. Authorizes a court to approve such a settlement or grant such a motion if, within 45 days of notification, a: (1) state or county fails to respond, and (2) each state or county that responds approves the covered settlement, or (3) all of the states and counties fail to respond.
Neighborhood Rescue and Stabilization Act of 2008 - Authorizes for FY2008 appropriations for assistance to states and local governmental units for the redevelopment of abandoned and foreclosed homes. Requires the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to allocate the funds among the states according to a funding formula reflecting the ratio that home mortgage foreclosures occurring in a state bears to the aggregate number of such foreclosures occurring in all states. Requires states to allocate funds to qualified metropolitan cities according to a similar formula. Requires states and local governmental units to give priority to those metropolitan areas, metropolitan cities, urban areas, rural areas, low- and moderate-income areas, and other areas with the greatest need, including those: (1) with the greatest percentage of home foreclosures. (2) with the highest percentage of homes financed by a subprime mortgage related loan. Or (3) identified as likely to face a significant rise in the rate of home foreclosures. Cites eligible uses and redevelopment financing mechanisms. Sets forth low- and moderate-income requirements for the use of all funds made available under this Act.
Amends the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to allow a military reservist who is ordered to active duty for a period of more than 90 days: (1) an exemption during the period of active duty from payment of rent on a primary residence occupied by such member or dependents. And (2) a deferral of mortgage payments on a principal residence. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow lessors of military reservists granted an exemption from rent payments under this Act a refundable tax credit for the exempted lease amounts.
Advanced Nuclear Fuel Availability Act This bill directs the Department of Energy to develop and deploy high-assay low-enriched uranium for domestic commercial use and to develop a schedule for recovering costs associated with such development.
National Commission on Fairness in the Workplace Act - Establishes the National Commission on Fairness in the Workplace, which shall conduct a comprehensive study of the impact of part-time employment in the United States, including: (1) a review of the trend toward creation of more part-time than full-time jobs. (2) an assessment of the relationship between part-time work and wage levels, benefits, earning potential, and productivity. And (3) a review of the practice of providing different wage and benefit levels to part-time and full-time workers. Authorizes appropriations.
Directs the Secretary of Energy to make incentive payments during a specified incentive period to the owner or operator of: (1) a turbine or other generating device owned or solely operated by a non-Federal entity which generates hydroelectric energy for sale and which is added to an existing dam or conduit. And (2) hydroelectric facilities at existing dams for capital improvements that are directly related to improving their efficiency by at least three percent. Describes payment limitations.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) to impose a tax on the manufacture or importation of tires of any type, including solid and pneumatic tires. Establishes the Waste Tire Recycling, Abatement, and Disposal Trust Fund. Appropriates to the Fund the taxes received under IRC provisions relating to an assessment on motor vehicle tires and amounts received under specified provisions of the Solid Waste Disposal Act. Makes Fund amounts available , and authorizes appropriations, for State and Federal waste tire recycling, abatement, and disposal activities and related research.
Veterans' Employment, Business Opportunity, and Training Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish the Veterans' Employment, Business Opportunity and Training Program through which State governors or other entities receive grants for providing employment services to veterans, servicemembers, and the spouses of certain veterans. Requires the Secretary to ensure that all services under the program are provided through grants awarded on a competitive basis and that such grants include appropriate performance requirements with clear outcome measures. Requires each governor or entity receiving grant funds to: (1) achieve the performance requirements. And (2) comply with applicable uniform-cost principles and regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Transfers from the Secretary of Labor to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs responsibility for the administration of: (1) certain employment services for veterans. (2) a program of furnishing counseling and employment and training assistance to members of the armed forces who are being separated from active duty and their spouses, and (3) the homeless veterans' reintegration program.
Sound Science Saves Species Act of 2002 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to require a petition to add or remove a species from either the endangered or threatened species list to contain: (1) evidence of the species' known and historic ranges, the most recent population estimates and trends, and the reason that the petitioned action is warranted, including known or perceived threats, (2) a bibliography of scientific literature on the species. And (3) a description of all available data on the species' historical and current range, population, and distribution, an explanation of the methodology used to collect such data, and an identification of the location where it can be reviewed. Requires the Secretary to make specified notifications after receiving such a petition. Sets forth requirements for the independent scientific review of petitions and findings regarding petitions and jeopardy opinions. Limits re-petitions for adding to such lists.
Minority Business Development Improvements Act of 2010 - Requires the Director of the Minority Business Development Agency to establish the Minority Business Development Program to provide qualified minority businesses with technical assistance and contract procurement assistance. Outlines minority business qualification requirements for the Program, including that: (1) not less than 51 of the entity be directly and unconditionally owned or controlled by historically disadvantaged individuals. And (2) each officer or other individual exercising control over regular operations is a historically disadvantaged individual. Outlines specific types of technical assistance authorized under the Program. Authorizes the Director to enter into agreements for the fulfillment of federal procurement contracts by, and contracting opportunities for, qualified minority businesses. Provides contract limits. Allows the Director to terminate a qualified minority business from the Program under specified circumstances.
Requires such carrier to make advanced service available: (1) to 80 percent of its customers in a State within three years after enactment of this Act, where such services can be provided using an industry-approved standard and existing loop facilities. And (2) within five years of such date, upon request of any customer. Allows carriers that meet such time limits to continue to receive the regulatory relief provided under this Act, while discontinuing such relief for failure to do so. Prohibits advanced service offered by such carriers from being subject to common carrier regulation by the FCC or a State in any exchange where advanced service is being provided by an unaffiliated advanced service provider. Allows for a petition to the FCC for such regulatory relief. Prohibits Federal or State regulation in any geographic area in which the carrier was not the local incumbent exchange carrier on February 8, 1996. States that, for services not found to be subject to unaffiliated competition, the carrier furnishing advanced service must file with the FCC a schedule of charges and practices. Discontinues the regulatory relief provided under this Act for a carrier for which a State makes a final determination of failure to comply with FCC or State rules concerning collocation or loop provisioning . Requires carriers using equipment located in a remote terminal to provide to any requesting telecommunications carrier access to subloop elements at such terminal for the provision of advanced services and rights-of- way for such purposes. Mandates that no carrier shall be required to: (1) make any payment for the transport, delivery, or termination of telecommunications to the Internet or any Internet service provider. Or (2) provide network elements on an unbundled basis unless those elements are to be used predominately to provide telephone exchange service.
Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility Safe Closure Act of 2009 - Prohibits federal funds from being used to: (1) transfer any enemy combatant detained at the Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States. Or (2) coordinate with any other department or agency to transfer any such individual to the United States. Prohibits the Secretary of Defense from: (1) using any facility closed through a base closure process for housing any such individual. Or (2) constructing, modifying, or improving any facility in the United States or its territories for housing any such individual.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on July 29, 2014. Reauthorizes provisions of the Defense Production Act of 1950 through September 30, 2019. Reinstates authorities under which the President may provide for loans to private business enterprises or authorize a guaranteeing agency to guarantee loans by private institutions to contractors, providers of critical infrastructure, or other persons for services, production, or deliveries essential to national defense. Makes such authorities effective for any fiscal year only to such extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts. Revises requirements relating to the Defense Production Act Committee to: (1) direct the Committee to coordinate and plan according to specified priorities and allocation authorities. (2) require the Chairperson to be the head of the agency to which the President has delegated primary responsibility for government-wide coordination of such activities. And (3) require the Chairperson to appoint a coordinator of Committee activities . Expands the Committee's annual report to Congress to include a description of contingency planning by federal agencies, legislative recommendations, and updated copies of federal agencies' rules to promote national defense under both emergency and nonemergency conditions. Requires federal agencies delegated defense production authority to review such rules annually and make updates whenever appropriate. Prohibits the President from: (1) delegating a determination to execute a contract for an industrial resource, material, or critical technology that is essential to national defense. (2) executing contracts for such capabilities unless the purchases are the most cost effective, expedient, and practical alternative method for meeting the need. And (3) taking action to correct an industrial resource shortfall without congressional authorization if such action would cause the aggregate outstanding amount of all such actions to exceed $50 million. Prohibits the congressional authorization requirement for an aggregate amount exceeding $50 million from applying to projects undertaken pursuant to a determination made before the enactment of this Act. Authorizes specified appropriations.
Federal Facilities Clean Water Compliance Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to waive immunity of the United States with respect to Federal, State, interstate, and local requirements, administrative authorities, sanctions, and penalties concerning water pollution control. Absolves Federal employees of personal liability for civil penalties under water pollution control laws for acts or omissions within the scope of official duties. Makes Federal employees subject to criminal sanctions under Federal or State water pollution control laws, but prohibits applying criminal sanctions to Federal agencies. Permits the imposition of civil penalties or the issuance of compliance orders against Federal agencies determined to be in violation of specified water pollution control or permit requirements. Authorizes the suspension or revocation of permits. Provides for the deposit of penalties into a fund to be used for water remediation and other restorative and preventive projects at Federal facilities. Includes Federal agencies within the definition of person for purposes of such Act.
State Prescription Drug Discount Act of 2002 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to: (1) require drug manufacturers to pay rebates to State prescription drug discount programs as a condition of participation in a rebate agreement for outpatient prescription drugs under the Medicaid program. And (2) provide for enhanced rebates for State prescription drug discount programs of States with rebate agreements.
Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to or contracts with: (1) the Center for Civic Education (CCE) to carry out civic education activities under the We the People.. The Citizen and the Constitution program and The Project Citizen program, and under Cooperative Educational Exchange programs. And (2) the National Council on Economic Education (NCEE) to carry out economic education activities under Cooperative Educational Exchange programs. Revises requirements for CCE implementation of the We the People.. The Citizen and the Constitution program and The Project Citizen program. Sets forth requirements for the Cooperative Educational Exchange programs of civic education by CCE and economic education by NCEE. Makes eligible for such programs Central European countries, an Eastern European country, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and the independent states of the former Soviet Union. Allows such program eligibility also for the Republic of Ireland, the province of Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom, and any developing country as defined under the Education for the Deaf Act. Authorizes appropriations through FY 2004 for: (1) the We the People.. The Citizen and the Constitution program and The Project Citizen program. And (2) the Cooperative Educational Exchange programs. Repeals title VI of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on May 20, 2014. International Megan's Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking - Directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish within the Child Exploitation Investigations Unit of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) the Angel Watch Center, which shall: (1) receive information on travel by child-sex offenders. (2) establish a system to maintain and archive all relevant information, including decisions not to transmit notification abroad and responses of destination countries to notifications. (3) establish an annual review process to ensure that the Center is consistent in procedures regarding providing notification to destination countries. And (4) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from child-sex offenders affected by notifications of destination countries. Authorizes the Center to transmit notice to a destination country of impending or current international travel of a child-sex offender to such country. Requires the Secretary, in conjunction with any appropriate agency, if the Center transmits such notice to a destination country, to make reasonable efforts to provide constructive notice through electronic or telephonic communication to the child-sex offender prior to such offender's arrival in such country, except when such constructive notice would conflict with an existing investigation involving the offender. Requires the Center to make reasonable efforts to provide constructive notice to such offender if the Center has reason to believe that transmitting notice to a destination country: (1) poses a risk to the life or well-being of the offender, or (2) is highly likely to result in the destination country denying entry to the offender. Terminates the authority of the Center to transmit such notice of international travel of a child-sex offender as of the close of the last day of the registration period of such offender under the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 . Directs the Center to establish a mechanism to receive complaints from child-sex offenders affected by notifications of destination countries. Requires the Center to engage in ongoing consultations with: (1) nongovernmental organizations that have experience in identifying and preventing child sex tourism and rescuing and rehabilitating minor victims of international sexual exploitation and trafficking, (2) the governments of countries interested in cooperating in the creation of an international sex offender travel notification system or that are primary destination or source countries for international sex tourism, and (3) Internet service and software providers regarding technology to facilitate the implementation of an international sex offender travel notification system in the United States and in other countries. Authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State to provide technical assistance to enable foreign authorities to participate more effectively in the notification program system. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should: (1) negotiate bilateral agreements with foreign governments to further the purposes of this Act. And (2) formally request foreign governments to notify the United States when a US citizen has been arrested, convicted, or sentenced or has completed a prison sentence for a child-sex offense in the foreign country. Amends the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 to include, as indicia of serious and sustained efforts to eliminate severe forms of trafficking in persons, a country's cooperation with other governments in the investigation and prosecution of such trafficking, including trafficking related to sex tourism. Encourages the President to use authorities under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to assist foreign countries in identifying sex offenders and providing and receiving notification of child sex offender international travel.
Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1998 - Amends the Agricultural Market Transition Act to eliminate marketing assistance loan rate caps for wheat, corn and feed grains, upland and extra long staple cotton, and oilseeds. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to (temporarily) provide cost-share assistance for crop and livestock producers performing certain drought alleviation projects. Makes such assistance available retroactively to eligible projects begun as of January 1, 1998. Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to authorize: (1) emergency loans based upon estimated losses, and (2) emergency loan interest deferral.
Geriatric Care Act of 2001 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) with respect to payments to hospitals, rural health clinics, or Federally qualified health centers for direct graduate medical education costs and the limitation on the number of full-time-equivalent residents in allopathic and osteopathic medicine. Provides for the disregard of up to three geriatric residents in applying such limitation. Amends SSA title XVIII, as amended by the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000, to provide for Medicare coverage of care coordination and assessment services to an individual with a serious and disabling chronic condition.
After Care Act of 2007 - Amends the federal criminal code to require: (1) the Attorney General to provide for the testing of prisoners about to be released from a federal facility for the human immunodeficiency virus. And (2) courts to order defendants testing positive for the virus to accept HIVAIDS treatment as a condition of supervised release and to notify any prospective sexual partner of HIVAIDS status. Requires the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish and maintain a program for HIVAIDS treatment of prisoners for two years after release by the Bureau of Prisons. Prohibits individuals receiving HIVAIDS medication, including antiretrovirals, through a federal program from selling or trading such medication.
Pharmaceutical Products Price Equity Act - Directs the President to issue orders and regulations, and establish procedures and reporting requirements, to ensure that no pharmaceutical product is sold to any consumer in the United States at a price that is more than six percent above the average retail price at which such pharmaceutical product is sold in the five most industrialized, free-market countries, other than the United States. Sets forth enforcement and civil liability provisions.
Requires the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out a demonstration program to assess the feasibility and advisability of permitting individuals with auditory impairments access as officers of the Air Force. Authorizes between 15 and 20 individuals who are deaf or have a range of other auditory impairments, who otherwise meet all essential qualifications for accession as an officer of the Air Force, and who have not previously served as officers to participate in such program. Requires selected participants to undergo the Basic Officer Training course or the Commissioned Officer Training course at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, at the election of the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to designate a special advisor to act as a resource for participants, as well as a liaison between participants and those providing the officer training.
Nuclear Security Act of 2003 - Amends the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 to instruct the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to: (1) establish a nuclear security force composed of NRC employees to provide for the security of all sensitive nuclear facilities against design basis threat. And (2) develop and implement a security plan containing specified elements for each sensitive nuclear facility to ensure the security of all sensitive nuclear facilities against such threat. Authorizes a holder of a license for a sensitive nuclear facility to petition the Commission for additional requirements in the security plan for such facility. Requires the NRC to establish a hiring and training program for the nuclear security force. Establishes the Nuclear Security Fund for use by the Commission to administer the security programs for sensitive nuclear facilities.
Confederate Commemorative Works Inventory and Joint Resource Study Act This bill directs the Departments of the Interior, Defense, and Veterans Affairs to each conduct a full inventory of specified Confederate commemorative works, including flags and other symbols or signage, on the public lands under their jurisdiction. Using such inventories, the National Park Service shall conduct a special resource study to examine the works commemorating and interpreting the Civil War and commemorating, with respect to such war, the soldiers, people on the home front and battle lines, and related locations in the United States from 1861-1865. Among contents required to be identified by the study are historical assessments of each work, the suitability and feasibility of retaining works, identification of properties that could meet the criteria for designation as national historic sites, and an evaluation of historical research.
Raoul Wallenberg Centennial Celebration Act - Directs The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the presentation on behalf of the Congress of a gold medal of appropriate design to the next of kin or personal representative of Raoul Wallenberg in recognition of his achievements and heroic actions during the Holocaust.
Women's Business Procurement Assistance Act of 1993 - Amends the Small Business Act to require the President and the head of each Federal agency to include small business concerns owned and controlled by women within the Federal procurement contract process. Declares that it is the policy of the United States that such business concerns should have the maximum opportunity to participate in the Federal procurement contract process. Requires the Director of the Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization section in each Federal agency to designate a women-in-business specialist responsible for the execution of programs designed to assist small business concerns owned and controlled by women. Requires that each such specialist: (1) possess the appropriate knowledge, qualifications, and training for such position. And (2) work full-time in such position. Establishes in the Small Business Administration the Office of Women's Business Ownership. Directs the Comptroller General to report to the Congress on the number of small businesses owned and controlled by women procuring Federal contracts. Expresses the sense of the Congress that if the number of such businesses procuring such contracts does not rise significantly, then further legislative steps should be taken.
Requires a consignee of imported foreign grain to: (1) include an end-use certificate in the documentation covering the entry of such grain. And (2) submit to the Secretary of Agriculture certain quarterly reports regarding its use. Sets forth civil penalties for violation of this Act. Prohibits the Commissioner of Customs from permitting the entry of such grain unless the importer of record presents such certificate at the time of entry. Requires the Commodity Credit Corporation to provide persons with an opportunity for a hearing before suspending or debarring them from participation in an agricultural trade program for using such grain in violation of it.
Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to modify, for a three year period, certain procedures for the provision of development assistance to foreign countries not cooperating with US counterdrug efforts. Requires the President, for each fiscal year during such period, to identify to the appropriate congressional committees any country the President proposes to subject to the withholding of half of any allocated bilateral assistance, and to opposition to any multilateral assistance to such country, because it is not: (1) cooperating with the United States in achieving full compliance with the goals and objectives of the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. (2) taking adequate steps on its own to achieve full compliance with the Convention. Or (3) taking adequate steps to achieve full compliance with a bilateral agreement with the United States on illicit drug control. Requires the inclusion of the identity of major drug trafficking organizations in the President's annual international narcotics control strategy report.
Rehab and Ahmed Amer Foster Care Improvement Act of 2012 - Amends part E of title IV of the Social Security Act to revise requirements that states must follow to contact the adult relatives of a child removed from the custody of his or her parents. Requires the state, within 90 days after making a placement decision, to provide notice of the decision and the reasons for it to each parent of the child, each relative who has expressed an interest in caring for the child, the guardian, and other specified parties. Requires the state to establish procedures to: (1) allow a person who receives such a notice to request documentation of the reasons for the decision involved, (2) allow the attorney for the child to petition the court involved to review the decision, and (3) require the court to commence such a review on the record after receiving such a petition.
Health Coverage Tax Credit Extension Act of 2015 This bill extends the tax credit for health insurance costs of a taxpayer and qualifying family members through 2019. The tax credit for health insurance costs is a refundable tax credit equal to 72.5 of the cost of qualified health coverage paid by an eligible individual defined as an individual who is receiving a trade adjustment allowance, is eligible for the alternative trade adjustment assistance program, or is over age 55 and receives pension benefits from the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). The bill requires a taxpayer to make an election to have the tax credit apply for any eligible coverage month during a taxable year. An eligible coverage month is a month in which an eligible individual is covered by qualified health insurance, does not have other specified coverage, and is not imprisoned. The bill also directs the Departments of the Treasury, Health and Human Services, and Labor and the PBGC to conduct a public outreach, including on the Internet, to inform individuals eligible for the tax credit for health insurance costs on the extension of such credit and the availability of the election to claim such credit retroactively for coverage months beginning after December 31, 2013.
Cyber Defense of Federal Networks Act of 2015 Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), in coordination with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to implement plans to: (1) detect, identify, and remove intruders in federal agencies' information systems. And (2) make advanced network security tools available for agencies to improve visibility of network activity to detect and mitigate intrusions and anomalous activity. Directs DHS to coordinate with the OMB to: (1) update government information security metrics to include measures of intrusion and incident detection and response times, and (2) display additional metrics about agency cybersecurity postures on federal government performance websites. Authorizes DHS, upon an agency's request, to operate and maintain technology that is deployed to agencies to diagnose and mitigate cyber threats and vulnerabilities. Requires DHS to regularly assess and require implementation of best practices for securing agency information systems and preventing data exfiltration. Redefines for purposes of DHS's national cybersecurity and communications integration center: (1) cybersecurity risk to exclude actions that solely involve a violation of a consumer term of service or a consumer licensing agreement. And (2) incident to include occurrences that actually or imminently jeopardize, without lawful authority, an information system, thereby replacing a standard that currently includes a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies. Requires DHS to assist agencies in implementing information security practices by: (1) providing incident detection, analysis, mitigation, and response information, disseminating related homeland security information, and providing remote or onsite technical assistance. (2) developing and conducting impact assessments in consultation with other governmental and private entities, (3) assessing and fostering technologies for use across multiple agencies. And (4) ensuring that policies are coordinated with standards for national security systems and policies of the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Director of National Intelligence. Authorizes the DHS Secretary to: (1) issue a directive to an agency to take any lawful action with respect to the operation of an agency's information system in response to a known or reasonably suspected information security threat, vulnerability, risk, or incident, including an act of terrorism, that represents a substantial threat to information security. Or (2) authorize, without prior consultation with the affected agency, the use of protective capabilities under the Secretary's control for communications or system traffic transiting to or from or stored on an agency information system if there is an imminent threat and a directive is unlikely to be timely. Exempts DOD and the intelligence community from such procedures.
Black Metropolis District National Heritage Area Study Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of designating the Black Metropolis District in Chicago, Illinois, as the Black Metropolis District National Heritage Area.
Film Disclosure Act of 1993 - Amends the Lanham Act to require that any distributor or network that proposes to exploit a materially altered motion picture bear a label which conspicuously discloses the fact of: (1) the film's material alteration from the form in which it was first released to the public, (2) the nature of such alteration. And (3) any objections raised by the artistic authors with reference to such alteration. Delineates the compliance procedure for distributors or networks that propose to exploit a materially altered film. Grants an artistic author the right to seek injunctive relief in US district courts to prevent violation of his or her rights under this Act.
Medicare Assurance of Rx Transitional Assistance Act of 2004 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to provide for the automatic enrollment of Medicare Savings Program (MSP) beneficiaries under SSA title XIX (Medicaid) in the interim prescription drug discount program and the transitional assistance program, making them eligible for the $600 per year in low-income discount card assistance without requiring a separate enrollment process.
Outer Continental Shelf Revenue Sharing Act of 2005 - Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) regarding the coastal impact assistance program to: (1) repeal references to leasing moratoria. (2) redefine a producing state as one that begins production on a leased tract on or after the date of enactment of this Act, regardless of whether the leased tract was on any date subject to a leasing moratorium. (3) repeal the exclusion of certain revenues from qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues. And (4) repeal the exclusion of certain leased tracts from the statutory formula for payments to coastal political subdivisions. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to delineate the lateral boundaries between coastal states in areas of the Outer Continental Shelf under exclusive federal jurisdiction. Prescribes guidelines for petitions to lease within the seaward lateral boundaries of coastal states. Includes guidelines under which a state shall share in qualified Outer Continental Shelf revenues as of the date production begins under this Act. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to issue implementing regulations, including procedures for entering into gas-only leases.
Electronic Campaign Disclosure Act of 1998 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA) to require the Federal Election Commission to: (1) establish a specified public Internet site not later than January 1, 1999. (2) permit persons required to file reports under FECA to file such reports by directly posting them on the Internet site or by filing them electronically to enable the Commission to post reports on such site immediately upon receipt. (3) provide for one or more methods for verification of reports filed in accordance with the methods described in the preceding. (4) require a person to file a report in accordance with the methods described during an election cycle if the aggregate amount of contributions and expenditures reported previously by the person during the cycle exceeds $25,000. And (5) obtain and provide for computer software required to carry out this Act through competitive bidding. Requires that if a political committee is required to file reports electronically during an election cycle, the committee shall file a report listing each contribution of $100 or more received by the committee not later than ten days after receipt and include the contributor's identification, the date of receipt and the contribution amount, and the candidate's name and the office sought by the candidate. Expands the types of contributions required to be reported by principal campaign committees subject to the mandatory electronic reporting requirements under this Act and changes the deadline for reporting such contributions by any authorized committee of a candidate.
Developing Resources Immediately and Long-Term through Leases on Our Nation's Offshore Waters Act of 2008, or DRILL NOW Act of 2008 - Declares without force or effect all existing federal law which prohibits spending appropriated funds to conduct oil and natural gas leasing and preleasing on the outer Continental Shelf. Revokes: (1) all withdrawals from leasing on federal submerged lands of the outer Continental Shelf. And (2) Presidential authorities with respect to such leasing . Amends of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to authorize a state governor to petition the Secretary of the Interior to issue leases for oil and natural gas exploration and extraction activities in any area that is at least 50 miles beyond the state's coastal zone. Cites circumstances under which the Secretary shall approve or deny the petition. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to deposit revenues from leasing operations into designated funds and accounts. Provides that any funds that would be received by the United States as royalties under any existing federal oil and gas lease on the outer Continental Shelf that lies within 50 miles of the coastal zone of the states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, or Alabama shall be paid to that state if it enacts an expenditure plan for those funds.
Lower Yellowstone Reclamation Projects Conveyance Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey the works, facilities, and lands of the Lower Yellowstone Irrigation Project, the Intake Irrigation Project in Montana, and the Savage Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program to the Lower Yellowstone Irrigation Districts No. 1 (Montana) and No. 2 , the Intake Irrigation District (Montana), and the Savage Irrigation District (Montana), respectively, pursuant to the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding of November 16, 1999, between the Districts and the Bureau of Reclamation. Requires: (1) all conveyances under this Act, except the Diversion Works to be conveyed in the first stage. And (2) the Diversion Works to be conveyed in the second stage. Requires the Districts to buy Reclamation withdrawn lands as identified in the Memorandum for their value in providing operation and maintenance benefits. Requires the Secretary to accept: (1) an amount equal to the present value of the remaining water supply repayment obligation from the Savage Irrigation District as full payment of such District's share of the construction of the Savage Unit. And (2) a specified amount from the Pick Sloan Missouri Basin Program power customers as full payment for the construction aid-to-irrigation associated with Unit facilities. Conditions the conveyance on the Lower Yellowstone Irrigation Districts conveying a perpetual conservation easement to the State of Montana for the purposes of protecting, preserving, and enhancing the conservation values and permitting recreation on Federal lands in part to be conveyed under this Act. Sets forth requirements regarding: (1) continuation of Pick-Sloan Program irrigation components and pumping power service, and (2) Yellowstone River fisheries protection.
Children's Media Protection Act of 1995 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to direct the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to: (1) prescribe rules to identify and rate sexual, violent, and indecent television programming that is clearly inappropriate for children. (2) prescribe rules for the transmission by television programming distributors of signals that identify the programming rating and permit viewers to block such inappropriate programming. And (3) require television sets with picture screens of 13 inches or greater to be equipped with blocking circuitry and enable viewers to block display of all programs with a common rating. Prohibits any person from shipping, manufacturing, assembling, or importing any television not so equipped. Requires performance standards for blocking technology. Directs the FCC to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to prescribe a prohibition on the broadcast on commercial television and any public telecommunications entities between 6 o'clock a. m. and 9 o'clock p. m. of such inappropriate programming. Directs the FCC, in granting an application for a television broadcast license, to impose conditions which ensure that the applicant complies with the standards for children's television programming as established under the Children's Television Act of 1990 and otherwise serves the educational and informational needs of children through its overall programming. Prohibits a cable franchise award or renewal unless the cable operator complies with such standards.
Imperial Valley Desert Conservation and Recreation Act This bill directs the Department of the Interior to convey to the state of California approximately 934 acres of specified public lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in San Diego County, upon termination of all mining claims to such lands, to be managed in accordance with the provisions of the California Wilderness Act. On the submission of an application by Imperial County, California, the Department of Transportation shall seek a conveyance from Interior of approximately 3,500 acres of BLM-administered land adjacent to the Imperial County Holtville Airport in Imperial County, California, for purposes of airport expansion. The bill establishes the Vinagre Wash Special Management Area in California to conserve, protect, and enhance its plant and wildlife values and nationally significant resources. The area shall consist of approximately 81,880 acres of certain public lands in Imperial County. Interior shall manage specified lands in the management area to preserve their character for eventual inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System.
Afghanistan and Central Asian Republics Sustainable Food Production Act of 2001 - Directs the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development to provide financial assistance to nongovernmental organizations carrying out rural developmental activities in Afghanistan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. Stipulates the aid shall be used for: (1) restocking seed, (2) replacing breeding livestock, (3) restoring basic irrigation systems. (4) providing access to credit for food production, processing or marketing enterprises through rural microenterprise loan programs. And (5) technical assistance. Places human rights and other conditions on the government of Afghanistan for projects to be funded in Afghanistan.
Medicare Patient Empowerment Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to allow any Medicare beneficiary to enter into a contract with a non-participating physician or practitioner for any item or service covered by Medicare. Allows such beneficiaries to submit a claim for Medicare payment in the amount that would otherwise apply if the claim had been filed by a participating physician or practitioner in the payment area where the physician or practitioner covered by the contract resides. Requires a Medicare beneficiary to agree in writing in such a contract to: (1) pay the physician or practitioner for a Medicare-covered item or service. And (2) submit a claim for Medicare payment. Allows a beneficiary, however, to negotiate, as a term of the contract, for the physician or practitioner to file such claims on the beneficiary's behalf. Preempts state laws from limiting the amount of charges for physician and practitioner services for which Medicare payment is made.
True Cost of War Act of 2011 - Directs the President, with contributions from the Secretary of Defense (DOD), the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA), to report to Congress an estimate of the long-term costs of Operation New Dawn and Operation Enduring Freedom under three specified scenarios based on the number of US troops deployed in such operations, as well as contingency operation and withdrawal plans. Requires the President, in preparing such report, to make estimates and projections through at least FY2020, and to take into account specified cost factors, including: (1) the deployment of US military personnel, contractors, and private security firms. (2) the number of veterans in need of medical or mental health care due to injuries and illnesses, (3) pending veterans' disability compensation claims, (4) total casualties and injuries, (5) current and future operational expenses and related costs. And (6) the amount of money borrowed to pay for such operations, the sources of that money, and the interest on the money borrowed.
Ensuring Defense Support to Catastrophic Incident Response Act of 2008 - Directs the Department of Defense (DOD) to undertake civil support operations in response to catastrophic incidents in the United States. Requires: (1) the Secretary of Defense to develop comprehensive plans for such operations, including strategies for the use of the Armed Forces and civilian personnel and contractors of DOD. (2) the annual DOD budget to include a separate funding request for carrying out such operations. And (3) the first national security strategy and national defense strategy prepared after the enactment of this Act to include, among other things, DOD roles and responsibilities in responding to catastrophic incidents.
Setting Aside for a Valuable Education (SAVE) Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) permit private higher educational institutions, in addition to currently permitted State institutions, to establish qualified tuition programs. (2) exclude from gross income program distributions used for qualified higher education expenses. (3) permit an annual rollover to a different tuition program on behalf of the same beneficiary, (4) include first cousins as a qualifying family member, and (5) revise the room and board limitation.
Federal Propaganda Prohibition Act of 2005 - Requires an Executive agency, not later than 30 days after entering into a contract for public relations, media relations, advertising, or public opinion research services, to submit in writing to specified congressional committees the contractor's name, the amount and the purpose of the contract, a summary of the contract, other relevant information, and, upon request: (1) a copy of the covered contract, (2) any contract modifications. And (3) any materials produced under the contract. Prohibits an officer or employee of the US Government from making or authorizing an expenditure or obligation of funds for publicity or propaganda within the United States unless authorized by law. Imposes penalties. Requires each advertisement or other communication paid for by an Executive agency to include a prominent notice that the advertisement or other communication is paid for by that agency.
Eliminating Improper and Abusive IRS Audits Act of 2014 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) increase the maximum amount of civil damages for which Internal Revenue Service (IRS) officers or employees shall be liable for reckless, intentional, or negligent disregard of internal revenue laws and extend the period for bringing a claim for such damages. (2) increase the penalties against federal officers and employees for violations of internal revenue laws and for unauthorized inspection or disclosure of tax returns and return information. (3) extend the period in which taxpayer property that has been wrongfully levied upon may be returned and the period for bringing suit for a wrongful tax levy. (4) increase civil fines for unauthorized disclosures of tax return information. (5) prohibit the consideration by the IRS Office of Appeal on appeal of any issue that was not within the scope of the initial determination. (6) prohibit a tax lien against a taxpayer's principal residence unless a written determination is made that all other property of the taxpayer, if sold, is insufficient to pay the tax liability and the lien will not create an economic hardship for the taxpayer. (7) require the termination of an IRS employee for disproportionate scrutiny of an organization applying for tax-exempt status based on the ideology expressed in the name or purpose of the organization. (8) allow a declaratory judgment with respect to the initial or continuing classification of a tax-exempt social welfare organization. And (9) require the Inspector General for Tax Administration of the Department of the Treasury to review any IRS criteria for selection of tax returns for examination or audit, assessment or collection of deficiencies, criminal investigation or referral, refunds for amounts paid, or any heightened scrutiny or review to determine whether such criteria discriminates against taxpayers on the basis of race, religion, or political ideology and to consult with the IRS on recommended amendments to such criteria.
Prohibits US officers, employees or agents from providing any thing of value to the IMF for the purpose of providing resources to the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) or other concessional lending facility of the IMF. Amends the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to require the US director of the IMF to use every effort to terminate the ESAF. Prohibits appropriations for payments to the IMF until it has canceled all debts owed to it by HIPCs and Haiti. Prohibits the US governor to the IMF from voting for any proposal for any quota increase for the IMF, unless, before the proposal was made, Congress received notice of the proposal and the position of the Executive Branch on it, and Congress has enacted a joint resolution of approval.
Rural Law Enforcement Act of 1997 - Amends the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 to establish: (1) at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock the National Center for Rural Law Enforcement. And (2) an Advisory Board to formulate, adopt, and publish guidelines governing the operation of the Center. Sets forth provisions regarding the Center's: (1) functions, (2) authority, and (3) methods . Authorizes appropriations.
Commission to Study the Federal Statistical System Act of 1996 - Establishes the Commission to Study the Federal Statistical System. Directs the Commission to study all matters relating to Federal statistical infrastructure, including longitudinal surveys conducted by private agencies and partially funded by the Federal Government. Authorizes appropriations.
Federal Reserve Reform Act of 1995 - Amends the Federal Reserve Act to abolish the current Federal Open Market Committee, on which the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System sits, and replace it with a Federal Open Market Advisory Committee, on which the Board does not sit, which shall advise the Board on the conduct of open-market operations. Requires the Board to meet and consult with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers during specified periods. Revises the term of the Chairman of the Board to expire on January 31 of the first calendar year beginning after the end of the term of the President who appointed the Chairman. Provides for performance of the duties of Chairman and Vice Chairman in the event of absence, unavailability, or vacancy. Mandates that each Board-adopted change in the intermediate targets for monetary policy be disclosed to the public upon its date of adoption. Amends Federal law to: (1) instruct the Comptroller General to audit written communications by members of the Board or officers or employees of the Federal Reserve System with respect to financial transactions. And (2) mandate an annual transmittal to the President and the Congress of all estimated receipts and proposed expenditures of the Board and all Federal Reserve banks for the current year and the next two succeeding years.
Directs the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with specified provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, to issue a final rule relating to ergonomics.
Chesapeake Bay Program Reauthorization and Environmental Accountability Act of 2005 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to: (1) complete a plan for achieving the nutrient and sediment reduction goals described in the Chesapeake 2000 Agreement. (2) publish and circulate an annual tributary health report card to evaluate progress made in achieving and maintaining nutrient and sediment reduction goals for each major tributary of the Chesapeake Bay. And (3) make annual reports to Congress on nutrient and sediment reduction in the Chesapeake Bay. Requires the states of Delaware, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia and the District of Columbia to submit information to the Administrator annually on actions taken by such states to achieve nutrient and sediment reductions in the Chesapeake Bay. Directs the Office of Management and Budget to report to Congress on the funding of restoration activities in the Chesapeake Bay. Increases and extends through FY2010 the authorization of appropriations for the Chesapeake Bay Program.
State Innovation Pilot Act of 2011 - Amends part D (Waivers) of title IX of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to revise the process by which states, LEAs, and Indian tribes obtain waivers of the Act's statutory and regulatory requirements. Requires waiver requests by states, LEAs, or Indian tribes to include a plan that describes how: (1) the waiver will improve instruction and student achievement in accordance with the state's college and career ready academic content and achievement standards, (2) the plan will be evaluated regularly and improved continuously. (3) they will review implementation of the college and career readiness standards, (4) they will identify, support, and intervene in underperforming schools. And (5) they will maintain and improve transparency in reporting to parents and the public on student achievement and school performance. Requires the Secretary of Education to approve requests that meet such requirements and do not involve certain specified statutory or regulatory requirements. Directs the Secretary to establish a multidisciplinary peer review team to review a waiver request if the Secretary requests their input or intends to disapprove the request. Requires peer reviewers to review waiver requests in their totality, in deference to state and local judgment, and with the goal of promoting state and local innovation. Gives the Secretary a limited amount of time to decide on a waiver request. Gives requesters opportunities to revise their requests. Prohibits the Secretary from imposing conditions on a waiver that require the state, LEA, or Indian tribe to adopt or drop specific standards or assessment systems.
Mark O. Hatfield-Elizabeth Furse Scholarship and Excellence in Tribal Governance Act of 2004 - Establishes as an independent entity of the executive branch the Mark O. Hatfield-Elizabeth Furse Scholarship and Excellence in Tribal Governance Foundation to be located in Portland, Oregon, to: (1) develop resources to properly train Native American and Alaska Native tribal council members in self-government and related fields. (2) foster greater recognition and understanding of the role of tribal self-government in the development of the United States, (3) identify critical issues facing tribal governments in the Nation. (4) establish a program for tribal goverance research at the Institute for Tribal Government at Portland State University. And (5) provide educational outreach regarding tribal self-government. Authorizes the Foundation to award scholarships, fellowships, internships, and grants to eligible individuals who meet the minimum criteria established by the Foundation for study in fields relating to tribal governance. Authorizes the Foundation to award scholarships to outstanding undergraduate students who intend to pursue careers relating to tribal goverance, and Native Americans and Alaska Natives intending to pursue careers in tribal public policy. Authorizes the Foundation to award fellowships to: (1) outstanding graduate students who intend to pursue advanced degrees in fields relating to tribal governance, and Native Americans and Alaska Natives intending to pursue advanced degrees in tribal public policy, law, or medicine. And (2) faculty from a variety of disciplines to bring their expertise to the Foundation. Authorizes the Foundation to award internships to deserving and qualified: (1) individuals to work in Federal, State, and local agencies or in offices of major tribal governance organizations. And (2) Native American and Alaska Native individuals to work in Federal, State, and local agencies or in offices of major public health or public policy organizations. Directs the Foundation to award grants to the Institute to: (1) provide for an annual panel of experts to discuss contemporary tribal governance issues. (2) conduct research in tribal governance policy and on Native American and Alaska Native tribal public policy issues. And (4) invite visiting policymakers to share practical experiences with the Foundation. Establishes in the Treasury the Mark O. Hatfield- Elizabeth Furse Scholarship and Excellence in Tribal Governance Trust Fund to be administered by the Foundation.
Amends the Technical and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988 to permit Alaska Native Corporations to litigate the validity of the sale of their net operating losses to other corporate buyers as reported on their tax returns, if the buyers so agree. Increases the interest on the underpayment rate for any underpayments resulting from such litigation.
Lake Pontchartrain Basin Restoration Act of 1999 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Restoration Program within EPA. Directs the Administrator to: (1) establish the Lake Pontchartrain Executive Council. (2) assist the Council in developing a comprehensive, multi-use watershed management plan for the restoration and protection of the Basin. And (3) provide funding and oversight for voluntary restoration projects for the Basin. Authorizes appropriations to: (1) continue to provide priority funding for the New Orleans Inflow and Infiltration Project sponsored by the New Orleans Sewerage and Water Board and Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, and (2) carry out this Act.
Technology Administration Authorization Act of 1995 - Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary of Commerce for: (1) the Under Secretary for Technology-Office of Technology Policy. And (2) the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Directs the Secretary to submit to the Congress a plan for phasing out the Office of Technology Policy and transferring essential functions to NIST. Amends the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act to direct the Secretary to establish an Experimental Program to Stimulate Cooperative Technology which shall make grants in furtherance of NIST's mission. Amends the American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991 to eliminate the National Quality Council. Amends the Fastener Quality Act with regard to metal chemistry testing, commingling of fasteners in distribution, and acceptance of nonconforming fasteners.
Public Broadcasting Reauthorization Act of 2004 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to authorize appropriations for: (1) FY 2007 through 2011 for the Public Broadcasting Fund, including funds for FY 2005 through 2009 specifically for transition from the use of analog to digital technology for the provision of public telecommunication services and for acquisition or production of digital programming of local, regional, and national interest. (2) FY 2005 for the Satellite Interconnection Fund, including for FY 2006 through 2008 up to the amount authorized for FY 2005 if the amount appropriated is less. And (3) FY 2005 through 2011 for public telecommunications facilities programs, including analog and digital broadcast facilities and equipment. Provides for recoupment by the Public Broadcasting Corporation of unexpended funds from a public broadcast station that ceases to provide public telecommunications services, or transfers its license or permit to an entity that will not provide such services. Redefines public broadcast services as public telecommunications services, namely noncommercial educational and cultural: (1) radio and television programming or other content. And (2) instructional or informational material transmitted electronically. Revises the authority of licensees and permittees of public radio stations to use funds distributed by the Corporation at their discretion for purposes related primarily to the production and acquisition of programming. Authorizes such recipients to use such funds primarily for the support of content, programming, and services, especially those that serve the needs and interests of the recipient's local community.
High School Sports Information Collection Act of 2009 - Amends the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 to require the Commissioner of the National Center for Education Statistics to collect the following information annually from each coeducational secondary school that receives federal financial assistance and that has an athletic program: (1) the number, gender, race, and ethnicity of students that attended the school. And (2) for each team that competed in athletic competition, the number, gender, race, and ethnicity of participants, the total expenditures, the number, gender, employment status, and qualifications of trainers, medical personnel, and coaches, and the number of competitions and practices scheduled. Requires such schools to: (1) make such information available to students and potential students, upon request, and to the public by October 15 of each school year. (2) ensure that all students at the school are informed of their right to request such information. And (3) annually provide such information to the Commissioner. Directs the Commissioner to: (1) ensure that such information is posted on the Department of Education's website. (2) notify all secondary schools regarding the availability of the information. And (3) issue guidance on how to collect and report the information required under this Act.
Truth in Tuna Labeling Act of 2003 - Amends the Dolphin Protection Consumer Information Act to declare that a tuna product labeled dolphin safe violates the Federal Trade Commission Act unless it is accompanied by a certificate stating that no dolphins were intentionally chased or harassed during the particular voyage on which the tuna were caught using purse seine nets. Applies this mandate to tuna products harvested either outside or inside the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean.
Authorizes the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF), in cooperation with the Secretary of Education and the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), to provide assistance for the creation and support of regional centers for the utilization of educational technologies . Allows ETU Centers to be established at any intermediate school district, regional education service agency, institution of higher education, or consortium of such entities, and to include the participation of non-profit entities. Requires ETU Centers to enhance the use of educational technologies in elementary and secondary education through: (1) advice to school administrators, school boards, and teachers on adopting and using new educational technologies and the usefulness of local schools' existing educational technology assets and infrastructure. (2) participation of individuals from the private sector, universities, State and local governments, and other Federal agencies. (3) active dissemination of technical and management information about the use of educational technologies. And (4) appropriate use of the expertise and capabilities that exist in Federal laboratories and Federal agencies. Requires ETU Centers' activities to include: (1) active transfer and dissemination of research findings and ETU Center expertise to local school authorities. (2) training of teachers in integrating schools' existing educational technology infrastructure into their instructional design. (3) training and advising of teachers, administrators, and school board members in acquiring, using, and supporting educational technologies, (4) support services to teachers, administrators, and school board members. And (5) advising of teachers, administrators, and school board members on current skill set standards employed by private industry.
Higher Education Accrediting Agency Responsibility Act of 2002 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to remove requirements that institutions of higher education (IHEs) be accredited or preaccredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association in order to receive Federal funds under various HEA programs, including student aid under HEA title IV. Removes such accreditation requirements with respect to IHEs, proprietary IHEs, special institutional aid under HEA title III, historically Black college and university capital financing, distance education demonstration programs, and student assistance program participation agreements. Repeals provisions for: (1) the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, and (2) recognition of accrediting agencies or associations under HEA.
AmeriCorps Disaster Relief Corps Act of 2005 - Establishes an AmeriCorps Disaster Relief Corps, administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service, to carry out service projects that: (1) provide food, clothing, shelter, and other humanitarian assistance for victims of major disasters and emergencies. (2) involve cleaning, repair, and reconstruction of structures, facilities, and lands located within the disaster area. And (3) perform other activities in response to the consequences of major disasters and emergencies. Authorizes the Corporation to: (1) make grants to, or enter into agreements with states, local governments, or other organizations to support AmeriCorps projects. (2) support the National Civilian Community Corps authorized under the National and Community Service Act. (3) support the VISTA program under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act. And (4) enter into a contract or other agreement with another Federal agency.
Helicopter Medical Services Patient Safety, Protection, and Coordination Act - Authorizes states to regulate helicopter medical services with respect to: (1) the medical qualifications and training of helicopter medical personnel. And (2) the obligation of providers of helicopter medical services to comply with a state's health planning, patient safety, and medical service requirements. Prohibits states from imposing requirements on pilots. Authorizes states to regulate the following aspects of helicopter medical services to the extent such regulations are harmonized with applicable federal operating requirements: (1) establishment of criteria for determination of the appropriate medical institution to receive a transported patient. (2) specification of service requirements with respect to geographic areas within a state or during specified hours and days, (3) coordination of flight requests for emergency helicopter medical services. (4) compliance with medical services accreditation requirements, except where they infringe upon relevant federal operating requirements. And (5) provision of emergency helicopter medical services to all persons where needed. Authorizes a state to regulate certain aspects of helicopter medical services to the extent that such regulations are consistent with, and do not infringe upon, applicable federal operating requirements. Specifies among the aspects of helicopter medical services which states may regulate: (1) the necessary medical equipment and supplies to be carried on board or affixed to the helicopter. (2) the physical attributes of the helicopter necessary for the provision of quality medical care and for the protection of helicopter, ground medical, and emergency response personnel. And (3) specified communication capabilities among helicopter medical personnel and emergency medical services and public safety personnel, and between the flight crew and helicopter medical personnel. Requires a provider of helicopter medical services that is licensed in more than one state where state helicopter medical services regulations are inconsistent to comply with the most stringent regulation. Requires a state, if necessary, to establish regulations or negotiate mutual aid agreements with adjacent states, or providers of helicopter medical services in such states, to ensure access to such services across state borders.
Amends Federal law to extend certain retirement-related provisions of the Civil Service and Federal Employees' Retirement Systems for Federal law enforcement officers to law enforcement officers of the Refuge Division of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior.
Social Security Lock-Box Act of 2005 - Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to provide a point of order against consideration of any: (1) budget resolution that sets forth totals for any fiscal year with respect to the Social Security Trust Funds that are less than the totals of the Social Security Trust Funds for that fiscal year as calculated in accordance with a current services baseline. Or (2) spending or tax legislation that would cause any totals to be less than the Funds totals for the covered fiscal year. Makes the point of order described in (2) above inapplicable to Social Security reform legislation. Requires any Federal budget submitted by the President that recommends totals for any fiscal year with respect to the Funds that are less than the totals of the Funds for that fiscal year to include a detailed proposal for Social Security reform legislation. Makes this Act inapplicable upon the enactment of such legislation. Defines Social Security reform legislation as a bill or joint resolution to save Social Security that specifies that it constitutes reform legislation.
Troubled Asset Relief Program Enhancement Act - Amends the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA) to require the Comptroller General to oversee the performance of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in meeting EESA purposes involving public accountability for the exercise of its authority. Grants the Comptroller General access, upon request, to any information, data, schedules, books, accounts, financial records, reports, files, electronic communications, or other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by the TARP, any entity established by the Secretary under EESA, or any entity participating in a program established under EESA, and to any of their officers, employees, directors, independent public accountants, financial advisors and any and all other agents and representatives. Requires the Comptroller General to be afforded full facilities for verifying transactions with the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians. Prohibits the Comptroller General from disclosing publicly any proprietary or trade secret information obtained under this Act.
Make Education Local Act of 2018 This bill authorizes each state thatnbsp. Submits to the Department of Education a state management decision to receive federal education funding on a consolidated basis. A state may use funding received pursuant to such a decision for any educational purpose. Each state management decision shall contain specified information, including: (1) a list of programs that are subject to the state management decision, and (2) a description of how the state will address persistently failing public schools. Each state operating under a state management decision shall: (1) establish an accountability system focused on assessing the academic achievement of students, (2) inform the public regarding the student-achievement assessment system, (3) report annuallynbsp, to parents and the general publicnbsp, on student progressnbsp, and other school options available innbsp. The state, and (4) provide for the equitable program participation of private-school children and teachers in the same manner as provided under current law.
Water Recycling and Riverside-Corona Feeder Act of 2006 - Inland Empire Regional Water Recycling Initiative - Amends the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior: (1) in cooperation with the Inland Empire Utilities Agency, to participate in the design, planning, and construction (design) of the Inland Empire regional water recycling project, California. (2) in cooperation with the Cucamonga Valley Water District, to participate in the design of the Cucamonga Valley Water District satellite recycling plants in Rancho Cucamonga to reclaim and recycle approximately two million gallons per day of domestic wastewater. (3) in cooperation with the Yucaipa Valley Water District, to participate in the design of projects to treat impaired surface water, reclaim and reuse impaired groundwater, and provide brine disposal within the Santa Ana Watershed. And (4) in cooperation with the City of Corona Water Utility, to participate in the design of, and land acquisition for, a project to reclaim and reuse wastewater, including degraded groundwaters, within and outside of the City. Limits the federal cost share of each project to 25. Authorizes the Secretary, in cooperation with the Western Municipal Water District, to participate in a project to design the Riverside-Corona Feeder, which includes 20 groundwater wells and 28 miles of pipeline in San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, California. Limits the federal share of the project design and planning study costs.
Children's Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2006 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to: (1) require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make payments for FY2007-FY2011 to children's hospitals for expenses associated with operating approved graduate medical residency training programs. And (2) decrease from 26 to 12 the number of interim payments to hospitals per fiscal year. Requires a 25 reduction in the amount payable for residency training programs for children's hospitals that do not provide an annual report to the Secretary for the previous fiscal year or that do not provide an annual report that includes all of the required information. Requires an annual report to include: (1) the types of residency training programs that the hospital provided for residents, (2) the number of training positions for residents. (3) the changes the hospital made in residency training for residents during the academic year. And (4) the number of residents who completed their residency training at the end of the academic year and care for children within the borders of the service area of the hospital or within the state. Requires the Secretary to provide notice and an opportunity for a hospital to provide additional information before imposing the reduction. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), to report to Congress on the residency training programs.
Affordable Housing Preservation and Revitalization Act of 2009 - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to direct the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to ensure that funds in the residual receipts account of an eligible multifamily housing property are transferred, at the time of a qualified sale or exchange, to preservation entities. Requires that funds in the residual receipts account be used, subject to housing agency approval, to: (1) pay for rehabilitation costs approved by the housing agency, (2) deposit funds into the property's replacement reserve account. And (3) pay for social and other services, associated acquisition costs, and any other costs that have been approved by the housing agency and will directly benefit such tenants. Defines preservation entity as: (1) a nonprofit tax-exempt corporation. Or (2) a limited partnership or limited liability company where the sole general partner or sole managing member of such ownership entity is a nonprofit tax-exempt corporation. And (3) that has the capacity to acquire and preserve an eligible multifamily housing property. States that, for purposes of the low-income housing credit under the Internal Revenue Code, residual receipts used or transferred under this Act shall not be considered federal funds.
Protection of Homes, Small Businesses, and Private Property Act of 2005 - Declares that the power of eminent domain shall be available only for public use, which shall not be construed to include economic development. Applies such limitation to all exercises of eminent domain by the federal government or by state and local governments through the use of federal funds.
Miners Pension Protection Act This bill amends the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) to transfer certain funds to the 1974 United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) Pension Plan to provide pension benefits to retired coal miners and their families. The Department of the Treasury must transfer additional funds to the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan to pay pension benefits required under that plan if the amounts available for transfer under SMCRA's $490 million annual limit exceed the amounts required to be transferred for other purposes . The bill also: (1) prohibits the pension plan from making certain changes to benefits during any year in which a transfer is received, and (2) establishes additional reporting requirements for the plan. As an offset, the bill amends the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 to extend the authority of Treasury to collect certain customs user fees.
Stop Errors in Credit Use and Reporting Act or the SECURE Act - Amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act, with respect to civil liability for either willful or negligent noncompliance by a consumer reporting agency with respect to consumer credit protection requirements, to authorize a court to award: (1) injunctive relief to require compliance with such Act, and (2) costs and reasonable attorney fees to the prevailing party in any successful action for injunctive relief. Requires a consumer reporting agency to include, in its mandatory notification to a furnisher of disputed information in a consumer's file, all documentation provided by the consumer. Requires the furnisher of disputed information, upon notification of a dispute, to review and consider all documentation provided by the consumer. Directs the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to: (1) prepare, and deliver to appropriate parties, reports concerning disputed information received by consumer reporting agencies. And (2) prescribe rules for the gathering of information relating to such disputes. Directs the CFPB to establish mandatory procedures for a consumer reporting agency to follow to assure maximum possible accuracy of all consumer reports. Requires a consumer reporting agency to give a consumer a credit score free of charge if one is requested in connection with a free annual consumer report. Requires a consumer reporting agency to provide free disclosures, even without consumer request, to any consumer who has received either a notice of adverse action or an offer of credit on materially less favorable terms. Directs the CFPB to establish three publicly available registries of consumer reporting agencies, including registries of: (1) nationwide consumer reporting agencies. And (2) nationwide specialty consumer reporting agencies. Directs the Comptroller General (GAO) to study: (1) credit systems in the international credit system with government-administered consumer credit reporting systems. And (2) the feasibility of a national, US government-administered consumer credit reporting system.
HOPE VI Program Reauthorization and Small Community Mainstreet Rejuvenation and Housing Act of 2003 - Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to revise criteria for HOPE VI grants, including addition of criteria regarding tenant displacement, existing tenant occupancy priority, and timeliness of project completion. Revises the definition of severely distressed public housing to include: (1) buildings or projects that include very low-income elderly or nonelderly disabled persons. And (2) areas lacking sufficient affordable housing, transportation, supportive services, economic opportunity, schools, civic and religious institutions, and public services. Authorizes FY 2004 and 2005 appropriations. Extends program authority through September 30, 2005. Includes within the program's purposes assisting smaller communities to provide affordable low-income housing in connection with main street revitalization or redevelopment projects. Authorizes main street grants to smaller communities for affordable low-income housing in a commercial area in connection with an eligible project. Requires that a project be focused on: (1) joint public-private revitalization or redevelopment of a historic or traditional commercial area. And (2) affordable housing rather than severely distressed public housing. Defines smaller community as a local government unit that: (1) has a population of under 30,000, and is without a public housing agency. Or (2) has a public housing agency that administers 100 or fewer public housing dwelling units. Defines affordable housing as rental or homeownership units that are made available for initial occupancy subject to the same income and occupant contribution rules as dwelling units in public housing projects assisted with HOPE VI grants. Obligates up to five percent of HOPE VI appropriations for smaller community grants.
Promoting Students Using the Camp Community for Enrichment, Strength, and Success Act or the Promoting SUCCESS Act - Directs the Secretary of Education to award competitive matching grants to nonprofit organizations, for-profit organizations, and local educational agencies to carry out summertime learning pilot programs for students during their summers after grades five through nine. Requires such programs to provide students with camp activities geared toward: (1) reducing childhood obesity through increased physical activity and healthy lifestyle choices. (2) strengthening high school graduation rates by reducing summer learning loss and improving academic achievement. And (3) promoting positive youth development. Directs the Secretary to arrange for an independent evaluation of the pilot programs. Requires the Secretary to provide a grant or contract to one or more national nonprofit organizations to collect best practices from among this Act's grantees and provide grantees with training, technical assistance, and professional development.
Small Business Health Insurance Options Act of 2007 - Directs the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to: (1) establish a four-year pilot program to provide information and educational materials regarding health insurance options, including coverage options within the small group market, to small businesses. And (2) select up to 20 small business development centers (SBDCs) to receive grants under the pilot program. Requires: (1) a specified geographical distribution with respect to grant recipients. And (2) grant funds to be used to create and distribute informational materials and conduct training and educational activities.
Corporate Tax Fairness and Shareholder Rights Act of 2003 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) by determining that acquiring corporations incorporate expatriation transactions shall be considered domestic corporations. Defines a corporate expatriation transaction as, with certain exceptions, one in which a nominally foreign corporation acquires substantially all of the properties held by a domestic corporation and in which, immediately after the transaction, more than 80 percent of the stock of the acquiring corporation is held by former shareholders of the domestic corporation. Lowers the 80 percent threshold to 50 percent when the acquiring nominally foreign corporation lacks substantial business activities in the foreign country in which it was created and organized compared to the total activities of the expanded affiliated group and the stock is publicly traded, with the principal market of trading being the United States. Defines the terms nominally foreign corporation and expanded affiliated group. Applies similar rules to partnership transactions. Establishes that a series of related transactions relevant to the Act shall be handled as a single transaction. Amends the Securities Act of 1934 to require: (1) disclosure to shareholders, and effects of, corporate expatriation transaction. And (2) disclosure to the SEC of the approval of any corporate expatriate transaction. Amends the IRC to temporarily increase the expensing limit and phaseout threshold.
Directs the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees on: (1) the effectiveness of the pilot program, including an assessment of the benefits to the environment derived from the projects included in the program as well as an estimate of the potential benefits to the environment to be derived from widespread application of such intermodal transportation activities. And (2) the mechanisms used by the Secretary to ensure that the information and knowhow gained by program participants is transferred among them and to other interested parties, including other project applicants. Authorizes appropriations.
New Aid for Trustworthy, Affordable Drugs Act - Directs the United States Trade Representative (USTR) to enter into agreements with other North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) countries to harmonize regulatory requirements such that drugs approved for commercial distribution in any NAFTA country may be imported or exported between NAFTA countries. Permits the USTR to enter into such an agreement only if the agreement provides for: (1) regulatory standards for drugs that are consistent with the requirements of this Act. (2) a seal, to be placed only by a registered pharmacy, certifying that a given drug meets the standards of the harmonization agreement and may be imported. (3) a unique system of tracking numbers identifying certain entities, including the drug manufacturer and the NAFTA county of origin. (4) the reimbursement by drug manufacturers of the Secretary of Health and Human Services for benefits derived from National Institutes of Health research. Sets a sunset of one year after the passage of this Act for the authority of the USTR to enter into harmonization agreements under this Act.
Aviation Disaster Family Assistance Act of 1996 - Amends Federal transportation law to require the Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), after an accident involving a domestic or foreign aircraft that results in a major loss of life of passengers, to: (1) designate and publicize the name and phone number of a director of family support services to be a Government liaison between the air carrier or foreign air carrier and the families of the passengers. And (2) designate an experienced, independent nonprofit organization which shall have primary responsibility for coordinating the care and support of the passengers' families. Declares that the NTSB shall have primary Federal responsibility for facilitating the recovery and identification of fatally-injured passengers involved in an aircraft accident. Prohibits: (1) any person from impeding the ability of the NTSB, or the designated organization, from carrying out its responsibilities under this Act. And (2) any unsolicited communications from being made to the families concerning potential action for personal injury or wrongful death before the 30th day following the accident. Sets forth penalties for violations of this Act. Requires each air carrier to submit to the Secretary of Transportation and the Chairman of NTSB a plan for addressing the needs of the passengers' families. Specifies minimum requirements for such a plan. Prohibits the Secretary from approving an air carrier's application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity unless it includes such plan in its application. Requires the Secretary to establish a task force to develop: (1) a model plan to assist air carriers in responding to aircraft accidents. (2) recommendations to the Congress on methods to ensure that attorneys and the media do not intrude on the privacy of the passengers' families. And (3) recommendations on methods with respect to assistance to non-citizens, out-of-state mental health workers at the accident site, the use of military experts and facilities in passenger remains identification, and timeliness of airline notification to families of victims.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exempt from taxation a qualified State tuition program. Defines such a program.
Airport Streamlining Approval Process Act of 2002 - Amends Federal transportation law to direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to take action to encourage the construction of airport capacity enhancement projects at congested airports. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to develop and implement a coordinated review process for such projects, which shall provide that all environmental reviews, analyses, opinions, permits, licenses, and approvals that must be issued or made by a Federal agency or airport sponsor for such a project will be conducted concurrently in cooperation with all Federal and State agencies with jurisdiction over environmental-related matters. Requires: (1) the Secretary determine the reasonable alternatives to an airport capacity enhancement project at a congested airport. And (2) any other participating Federal or State agency to consider only those alternatives the Secretary has determined are reasonable. Authorizes the Secretary, at the request of an airport sponsor for a congested airport, to approve a restriction on use of a runway to be constructed at the airport to minimize potentially significant adverse noise impacts from the runway only if the restriction is necessary and the most appropriate and cost-effective measure to mitigate such impacts and expedite runway construction. Authorizes the Secretary, in specified circumstances, to allow an airport sponsor carrying out such a project to make payments, out of airport revenues , for measures to mitigate the environmental impacts of the project, including aircraft noise. Permits the FAA Administrator to accept funds from an airport sponsor to hire additional staff or obtain the services of consultants in order to facilitate the timely processing, review, and completion of environmental activities associated with an airport development project. Authorizes appropriations to facilitate timely processing, review, and completion of environmental activities associated with airport capacity enhancement projects at congested airports. Permits a person disclosing a substantial interest in an order issued by the Secretary or the head of any other pertinent Federal agency to apply for judicial review of the order. Prescribes procedures and requirements for such an appeal. Repeals the requirement that the Secretary approve a project grant application only if the chief executive officer of the State in which the project will be located certifies that there is reasonable assurance that the project will be located, designed, constructed, and operated in compliance with applicable air and water quality standards. Revises the approval criteria without the requirement of an environmental impact statement for an airport development project that does not involve the location of an airport or runway, or a major runway extension, at an existing airport. Allows such a project without an environmental impact statement if completing the project would allow airport operations involving aircraft complying with the noise standards prescribed for stage 3 aircraft . Authorizes the Secretary to incur obligations to make grants to an operator of a congested airport and a specified unit of local government to carry out a project to mitigate noise in the area surrounding the airport, if the project is included as a commitment in an FFA record of decision for an airport capacity enhancement project, even if that airport has not met certain regulatory requirements.
Department of Energy High Energy and Nuclear Physics Authorization Act of 1994 - Authorizes appropriations for FY 1996 through 1999 for high energy physics and nuclear physics activities of the Department of Energy (DOE). Instructs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) enter into negotiations with the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) regarding US participation in the planning and construction of the Large Hadron Collider project. (2) submit an operations plan to certain congressional committees subsequent to enactment of appropriations for DOE high energy or nuclear activities. (3) contract with an independent organization to review the governance of DOE high energy and nuclear physics programs. And (4) report to the Congress on a mandated long-range plan prepared jointly with the Director of the National Science Foundation regarding Federal high energy and nuclear physics programs based on current and projected funding levels. Mandates that each of the President's annual budget requests for DOE high energy and nuclear physics activities distinguish between the budget for capital expenditures and other activities.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to reduce the deduction for corporate interest payments by 20 percent. Excepts small corporations and farming businesses from such reduction. Allows corporations a deduction of 50 percent of the dividends paid during a taxable year. Limits such deduction to the amount in the qualified dividend account established by the corporation for the payment of such dividends. Prohibits the following corporations from using such deduction: (1) regulated investment companies, (2) real estate investment trusts, (3) an S corporation, (4) cooperative organizations. And (5) foreign sales corporations and domestic international sales corporations. Provides for an increase in the withholding tax on dividends paid to nonresident aliens or foreign corporations to reflect the dividend paid deduction. Requires, in the case of the acquisition of assets of a corporation by another corporation, that the acquiring corporation carryover the qualified dividend account.
Twenty-First Amendment Enforcement Act - Amends the Webb-Kenyon Act to authorize a State attorney general who has reasonable cause to believe that a person is engaging in any act that would constitute a violation of State law regulating the importation or transportation of any intoxicating liquor, to bring a civil action for injunctive relief to: (1) restrain the person from engaging in the violation. And (2) enforce compliance with State law. Grants US district courts jurisdiction over any action brought by a State AG against any person, except one licensed or otherwise authorized to produce, sell, or store intoxicating liquor in such State. Permits such an action to be brought only in accordance with Federal judicial code provisions regarding venue, or in the district in which the recipient of such liquor resides or is found. Authorizes the court, in such action and upon a proper showing by the State AG, to issue a preliminary or permanent injunction or other order to restrain a violation. Specifies that a proper showing shall require clear and convincing evidence that a violation of State law regulating the importation or transportation of intoxicating liquor has taken place, and that no temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction may be granted except upon evidence: (1) demonstrating the probability of irreparable injury if injunctive relief is not granted. And (2) supporting the probability of success on the merits. Prohibits such issuance without notice to the adverse party and an opportunity for a hearing. Sets forth provisions regarding the form and scope of the order. Specifies that nothing in this Act may be construed to modify or supersede the operation of the Internet Tax Freedom Act. Prohibits any State from enforcing under this Act a law regulating the importation or transportation of intoxicating liquor that unconstitutionally discriminates against interstate commerce by out-of-State sellers by favoring local industries, erecting barriers to competition, and constituting mere economic protectionism. Provides that nothing in this Act may be construed to: (1) permit State regulation or taxation of Internet services or any other related interstate telecommunications services. Or (2) authorize any injunction against an interactive computer service or against an electronic communication service used by another person to engage in any activity that is subject to this Act. Provides that the amendment made by this Act shall apply only with respect to the importation or transportation of intoxicating liquor occurring after: (1) October 31, 1999, or the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the date of this Act's enactment, whichever is earlier, if this Act is enacted before November 1, 1999. Or (2) the date of this Act's enactment if this Act is enacted after October 31, 1999. Directs the Attorney General to conduct and report to Congress on the impact of this Act.
Department of Energy Laboratory Modernization and Technology Transfer Act of 2015 TITLE I INNOVATION MANAGEMENT AT DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Directs the Department of Energy (DOE) to: (1) report annually on its ability to improve the technology transfer and commercialization of energy technologies, including an assessment of the role and effectiveness of the Director of the Office of Technology Transitions. And (2) recommend changes to improve the ability to successfully transfer new energy technologies to the private sector. Expresses the sense of Congress that DOE should encourage the nonmilitary national laboratories and federally funded research and development centers to inform small businesses of the opportunities and resources that exist pursuant to this Act. Requires DOE to report on its capabilities to authorize, host, and oversee privately funded fusion and non-light water reactor prototypes and related demonstration facilities at DOE-owned sites. Instructs DOE, for purposes of such report, to consider DOE's capabilities to facilitate privately-funded prototypes of up to 20 megawatts thermal output. TITLE II CROSS-SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS AND GRANT COMPETITIVENESS Directs DOE to carry out the Agreements for Commercializing Technology pilot program in accordance with this Act, including by giving the contractors of the DOE nonmilitary national laboratories increased authority to negotiate contract terms and making every such facility eligible for the program. Permits the directors of the national laboratories to execute agreements with non-federal entities, provided that such funding is only used to carry out the purposes of the federal award. Subjects agreements that are funding agreements to the requirements of the Bayh-Dole Act . Imposes contractor certification requirements for the avoidance of direct competition with the private sector and conflicts of interest. Extends the pilot program until October 31, 2017. Requires DOE to report to Congress on the overall effectiveness of the pilot program and to annually account for, and justify, incidences of use by non-federal entities of funds derived from a federal contract or award to carry out agreements pursuant to the pilot program. Requires DOE to delegate to the directors of the national laboratories signature authority with respect to certain agreements the total cost of which is less than $1 million, if such an agreement falls within the scope of: (1) a strategic plan for the national laboratory that has been approved by DOE. Or (2) the most recent congressionally approved budget for DOE activities to be carried out by that laboratory. Makes this section inapplicable to any agreement with a majority foreign-owned company. Permits the directors of national laboratories to use funds authorized to support technology transfer within DOE to carry out early-stage and pre-commercial technology demonstration activities to: (1) remove technology barriers that limit private sector interest, and (2) demonstrate potential commercial applications of any research and technologies arising from national laboratory activities. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to exempt institutions of higher education and nonprofit institutions from the cost-sharing requirements for research and development for six years. Authorizes DOE to enter into an agreement with the National Science Foundation to enable the participation of DOE researchers in the National Science Foundation Innovation Corps program. TITLE III ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT Requires the Government Accountability Office to report to Congress on the results of projects developed under this Act and on the impact of DOE efforts to promote technology transfer and private sector engagement at the national laboratories.
Medicaid Cash and Counseling Program Act of 2005 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act to allow a state to provide, as medical assistance, payment for the cost of self-directed personal assistance services provided pursuant to a written plan of care to individuals who, but for such services, would require and receive personal care services under the plan, or home and community-based services provided pursuant to a waiver. Prohibits the provision of self-directed personal assistamce services to individuals who reside in a home or property owned, operated, or controlled by a service provider not related by blood or marriage.
North Korean Counterterrorism and Nonproliferation Act - Provides for the continuation of restrictions against the government of North Korea unless the President certifies to Congress that North Korea has met certain benchmarks respecting: (1) missile or nuclear technology transfers. (2) support of terrorist groups and terrorist activities, (3) counterfeiting of US currency, (4) release of South Korean POWs, Japanese journalists, and Kim Donk-Shik, and (5) Bureau 39's closure.
Hospital Price Disclosure Act of 2005 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require the public disclosure of prices for hospital and ambulatory surgical center procedures and drugs.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit to employers of members of reserve components of the armed forces and to self-employed individuals who are members of such reserve components.
Gasoline Price Reduction and Refinery Tax Fairness Act of 2004 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to define oil and gas exploration, production, processing, or treatment operations or transmission facilities as all field activities or operations associated with exploration, production, processing, or treatment operations, or transmission facilities, including activities necessary to prepare a site for drilling and for the movement and placement of drilling equipment, whether or not such field activities or operations may be considered to be construction activities. Directs the President to establish the Office of Federal Energy Project Coordination (Office) within the Executive Office of the President. Instructs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) perform an internal review of Federal onshore oil and gas leasing and permitting practices. And (2) implement certain best management practices to ensure timely action on oil and gas leases and applications for permits to drill on lands otherwise available for leasing. Directs the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture to: (1) enter into a prescribed Memorandum of Understanding regarding oil and gas leasing on public lands. And (2) establish a joint data retrieval system and a joint Geographic Information System mapping system. Amends the Energy Act of 2000 to require the Secretary of the Interior's inventory of all Federal onshore lands to identify restrictions or impediments to oil and gas resource development of such lands. Directs each Federal agency head to require the agency, before it takes action that could have a significant adverse effect on the supply of domestic energy resources from Federal public land, to act in compliance with a certain Executive Order that identifies actions to expedite energy-related projects. Amends the Mineral Leasing Act to set a deadline for expeditious consideration of applications for permits for oil and gas leases. Requires a Federal agency, in issuing any rule or order relating to gasoline production and distribution, to include a detailed analysis of the effects the rule or order would have on gasoline supply and seek to ensure that no rule or order is issued that will increase US dependence on foreign sources of oil. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for accelerated depreciation for refinery machinery. Requires each Federal agency with the authority to do so to approve or disapprove within 180 days of its receipt any application for approval of an action affecting the siting or operation of US refineries.
VA Vision Scholars Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish and carry out a scholarship program of financial assistance for individuals who: (1) are accepted for, or currently enrolled in, a program of study leading to a degree or certificate in visual impairment or orientation and mobility, or both. And (2) enter into an agreement to serve, after program completion, as a full-time Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee for three years within the first six years after program completion. Sets maximum assistance amounts of $15,000 per academic year and $45,000 total. Requires pro rate repayment for failure to satisfy education or service requirements, while allowing the Secretary to waive or suspend such repayment whenever noncompliance is due to circumstances beyond the control of the participant, or when waiver or suspension is in the best interests of the United States.
Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area Act - Establishes the Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area in Alaska. Requires: (1) the Secretary of the Interior to enter into a cooperative agreement with the Board of Directors of the Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Corridor Communities Association. And (2) the Association to develop a management plan for the Heritage Area. Prohibits the Association from using funds appropriated to carry out this Act to acquire real property.
Fighting Medicare Payment Fraud Act of 2009 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to extend to up to 365 calendar days for particular categories of service providers or suppliers the number of days in which Medicare claims are required to be paid in order to ensure that they are clean claims. Limits such extension to categories of service providers or suppliers, such categories in a certain geographic area, or individual service providers or suppliers about which the Secretary has determined that there is a likelihood of fraud, waste, or abuse involving them.
Bioterror and Pandemic Preparedness Protection Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish an exclusive federal cause of action for all claims relating to a qualified pandemic or epidemic product or a security countermeasure. Restricts all causes of action for such claims against a manufacturer, distributor, or health care provider and instead provides for sole and exclusive action against the United States. Gives jurisdiction over such an action to the US District Court for the District of Columbia. Establishes a rebuttable presumption of immunity for the federal government in any such action concerning: (1) a security countermeasure that has been procured for the National Strategic Stockpile. (2) a qualified pandemic or epidemic product that has been procured by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Or (3) a security countermeasure or designated qualified pandemic or epidemic product relating to an actual or potential public health emergency. Allows a party to petition the Secretary to investigate claims against a manufacturer, distributor, dispenser, or heath care provider. Disallows judicial review of the Secretary's decision as to whether to undertake such an investigation. Declares that the immunity presumption shall be overcome by a determination by the Secretary, by finding clear and convincing evidence, that the manufacturer, distributor, or health care provider intentionally or with willful disregard violated the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or this Act and that such violation: (1) caused the product to present a significant health risk, and (2) proximately caused the injury alleged by the petitioner.
Urban Flooding Awareness Act of 2014 - Directs the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to enter into an agreement with the National Research Council to conduct a study on urban flooding. Defines quot, urban floodingquot. As the inundation of property in a built environment, particularly in more densely populated areas, caused by rain falling on increased amounts of impervious surface and overwhelming the capacity of drainage systems. Directs the Council to evaluate the latest research, laws, regulations, policies, best practices, procedures, and institutional knowledge regarding urban flooding. Requires the Council's study to include an examination of: the prevalence of and costs associated with urban flooding events across the United States, with a focus on the largest metropolitan areas and trends in frequency and severity over the past two decades. The adequacy of federally provided flood risk information and the most cost-effective methods and products to characterize the risk of property damage from urban flooding on a property-by-property basis. The potential for training and certifying local experts in flood risk characterization as a service to property purchasers and owners. The causes of urban flooding and its apparent increase over the past 20 years. The most cost-effective strategies, practices, and technologies used to reduce the impacts of urban flooding. The role of the federal government and state governments in spurring market innovations based on public-private-nonprofit partnerships. The most sustainable and effective methods for funding flood risk and flood damage reduction at all levels of government. The relevance of the National Flood Insurance Program and Community Rating System to urban flooding areas outside traditional flood plains and strategies for broadening coverage and increasing participation under the Program. And strategies for protecting downstream communities from the flooding impacts of development in upstream communities.
Improving Access to Child Care for Homeless Families Act of 2012 - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) Congress has enacted successful policies to increase homeless children's access to and stability in public elementary and secondary schools and Head Start Programs. (2) in order to increase homeless families' access to and continuity in care, similar policies should be applied to federal child care programs. And (3) such policies will assist homeless parents in maintaining employment and regaining housing, and will provide critical interventions to support that vulnerable population of children. Amends the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 to require the lead agency to coordinate the provision of services under such Act with social services programs that include: (1) Head Start and Early Head Start programs under the Head Start Act, (2) programs and services of partners that serve vulnerable populations. And (3) programs and services of entities receiving grants to provide homeless veterans with housing, employment-related services, or supportive services. Revises state plan requirements to require consideration of homeless children in the use of funds for child care services and activities. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to carry out a pilot program of grants to states to identify and implement best practices for increasing access to and continuity of child care for homeless children.
Preserving Equitable Access to Community-based Home Health (PEACH) Act of 2009 - Establishes the PEACH fund from which home health agencies meeting specified criteria shall be paid supplemental amounts in addition to their statutory payment amounts under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA). Amends SSA title XVIII to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to make supplemental payments to certain community-based home health agencies that the Secretary has designated as PEACH agencies for estimated shortfalls due to providing uncompensated care.
Special Agent Scott K. Carey Public Safety Officer Benefits Enhancement Act - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to extend: (1) educational benefits to public safety officers who become permanently and totally disabled in the line of duty and to their spouses and children. (2) allow payment of retroactive benefits to dependents of such disabled officers. And (3) establish a program of pension payments for certain survivors of deceased public safety officers. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to: (1) award a Public Safety Officer scholarship to disabled public safety officers, their spouses, and their children. And (2) enter into agreements with educational institutions to carry out such scholarship program. Amends federal personnel law to allow widows or widowers of federal employees killed on the job to continue to receive monthly compensation even if they remarry before reaching age 55.
Amends the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act to direct the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to establish a Government-wide program to encourage and recognize contractor innovation and excellence in facilitating the defense of the United States against, or recovery from, terrorism or nuclear, biological, chemical, or radiological attack. Requires the Administrator to: (1) issue agency announcements seeking innovative solutions to advance defense against or recovery from such an attack. (2) convene a multiagency technical assistance team to assess feasibility, scientific and technical merits, and estimated costs and submit each proposal to each executive agency whose mission most coincides with the proposal's subject matter. And (3) provide monetary awards in recognition of unique and innovative solutions. Directs the Administrator to establish a pilot program under which the Secretaries of Defense, Energy, Commerce, Transportation, and the Treasury may test: (1) the innovative use of streamlined acquisition authorities and procedures. And (2) the feasibility of rapidly entering into contracts with private entities to carry out immediate solutions to key homeland security needs using commercial, off-the-shelf items and commercially available services.
Clean Water Compliance and Ratepayer Affordability Act of 2015 This bill requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to carry out a pilot program to facilitate the efforts of at least 15 municipalities to develop and implement integrated plans to meet their wastewater and stormwater obligations under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act in a cost-effective and flexible manner and consistent with the Integrated Municipal Stormwater and Wastewater Approach Framework issued by the EPA in May 2012. A municipality is eligible to participate in the pilot program if the municipality is: (1) a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit holder or designee. Or (2) operating under an administrative order, administrative consent agreement, or judicial consent decree to comply with the requirements of the Clean Water Act. The EPA may give priority to municipalities seeking to develop and implement an integrated plan that includes approaches that adapt to changed or future uncertain circumstances. In carrying out the pilot program and in mutual agreement with participating municipalities, the EPA may: (1) extend the allowable NPDES permit term by up to 25 years, (2) modify the implementation terms of a consent decree, and (3) provide additional regulatory flexibility in approving and implementing an integrated plan that includes adaptive approaches.
Freedom to Mourn in Peace Act of 2011 - Expands the prohibition on demonstrations at certain funerals, memorial services, or bereavement ceremonies for a deceased veteran to any property where such a service is held unless the demonstration has been approved by the cemetery superintendent or the owner of the property on which the funeral is held. Extends to 1,000 feet the distance within which certain demonstrations that impede access to or egress from such a cemetery or property are prohibited during the period beginning 60 minutes before and ending 60 minutes after such a service, provided that there is a visible sign at applicable distances stating the time interval during which a service will be held.
First Responders Support Act of 2008 - Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to: (1) increase death and disability benefits for public safety officers. And (2) expand educational benefits for dependents of public safety officers killed or disabled in the line of duty. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for up to $7,500 of the medical expenses paid or incurred by a public safety officer or a family member for injuries sustained while such officer was performing an official duty. Authorizes the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance to award grants for mental health services or counseling to public safety officers seriously injured in the line of duty and the family members of such officers who are killed or seriously injured in the line of duty.
Harbor Environmental Dredging and Management Act of 1993 - Amends the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 to establish a procedure for actions on permit applications for the dumping of dredged material into ocean waters. Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to develop a national standard for the disposal of sediments contaminated with dioxin. Requires the Administrator and the Secretary of the Army to develop and submit to the Congress a plan for: (1) the construction of a containment island as an alternative to the Mud Dump Site in New Jersey for the disposal of contaminated dredged material. And (2) the containment, clean-up, and prevention of dioxin contamination in the Passaic River basin in the vicinity of Newark, New Jersey. Authorizes the Secretary to approve the establishment of a consortium of permittees for the testing, permitting, and disposal of dredged materials to promote the cost-effective disposal and environmental management of dredged materials.
Foreign Business Bribery Prohibition Act of 2016 This bill amends the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) to authorize private rights of action against persons that violate the FCPA's anti-bribery provisions, which prohibit giving things of value to foreign officials or political parties for purposes of obtaining or retaining business. A person that violates the FCPA's anti-bribery provisions shall be liable for up to treble damages to a securities issuer, domestic business concern, or US person damaged by the violation. A plaintiff must prove an FCPA anti-bribery violation by the defendant that: (1) prevented the plaintiff from obtaining or retaining business, and (2) assisted the defendant in obtaining or retaining such business.
Safe NOW Act of 2006 - Establishes the National Sex Offender Risk Classification Task Force to create guidelines for a risk-based sex offender classification system. Authorizes the Task Force to carry out demonstration programs in five selected jurisdictions to: (1) use the Task Force's preliminary guidelines to implement such a system for their sex offender registries. And (2) identify ways to improve such guidelines. Expresses the sense of Congress that each state, federally recognized Indian tribe, and US possession and territory should use final Task Force guidelines to implement such a system for its registry.
Venezuelan Refugee Assistance Act This bill provides for the status adjustment to permanent resident of a qualifying Venezuelan national who: (1) was physically present in the United States on January 1, 2013, (2) has been physically present in the United States for at least one year and is physically present in the United States on the date the status adjustment application is filed, (3) has not been convicted of specified crimes and was never involved in the persecution of others, and (4) applies for adjustment before January 1, 2019. Derivative adjustment of status is provided for the spouse, child, or certain unmarried sons or daughters of such alien.
Medicare Drug Savings Through Choice Act of 2007 - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) offer a Medicare operated prescription drug plan with a service area that consists of the entire United States. (2) negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers to reduce the purchase cost of covered Medicare part D drugs. And (3) encourage the use of more affordable therapeutic equivalents. Requires the monthly beneficiary premium charged under such a plan to be uniform nationally. Requires adjustment of such premium amount in case of supplemental prescription drug coverage.
Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act of 2017 The bill amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to reauthorize through FY2022: programs for preventing and reducing pollution through research, investigations, and training, state and interstate water pollution control programs, wet weather watershed pilot projects. A grant program for implementing state management programs for controlling pollution added from nonpoint sources to navigable waters, a grant program for protecting groundwater quality, clean water state revolving funds, a pilot program for alternative water source projects. And sewer overflow and stormwater reuse municipal grants . The bill authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency to make grants to rural, small, and tribal municipalities for addressing pollution. The bill revises requirements governing capitalization grant agreements, clean water state revolving funds, and sewer overflow and stormwater reuse municipal grants.
Competitiveness Tax Credit Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an investment tax credit for manufacturing and other productive equipment based upon a determination of the domestic origin of such property. Makes such credit applicable for the two-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
Requires the Secretary to determine criteria for: (1) the selection of the Federal public buildings in which defibrillators should be placed, (2) defibrillator maintenance. And (3) the coordination of the use of the defibrillators in public buildings, facilities, or other venues with emergency medical services providers for the geographic areas in which the buildings are located. Provides that any person who provides emergency medical care through the use of a defibrillator, and the person who acquired the device are immune from civil liability for any personal injury or wrongful death resulting from the provision of such care, unless the person engaged in gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct under the applicable circumstances, or the person was a licensed or certified medical professional who was using the defibrillator while acting within the scope of employment as a medical professional.
Military Savings Act of 2012 - Directs the Undersecretary of Defense (Comptroller) to carry out a five-year pilot program to develop innovative consumer financial products that encourage savings and wealth-creation among active-duty servicemembers. Requires the program to be carried out in such a way that it does not exacerbate the incidence of servicemember credit overextension. Directs the Undersecretary to choose at least 10 military installations at which to implement the program. Directs the Undersecretary to contract for an annual independent program evaluation until its termination. Allows the Undersecretary, under certain conditions, to expand the program to a nationwide program and to extend its duration.
Creating Opportunities for Rural Economic Expansion Act or the CORE Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to require at least 5 of the new markets tax credit limitation to be allocated to community development entities in connection with certain investments, financial counseling, and other services in distressed coal communities. A quot, distressed coal communityquot. Is any low-income community located in a county that: (1) was one of the 30 counties with the biggest employment decrease among coal operators over a specified time period. Or (2) is contiguous to a county that has the required decrease in employment, is located in the same state, and contains at least one low-income community.
Worker Rights and Labor Standards Trade Act of 1994 - Directs the President to seek the establishment of: (1) a working party within the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to examine the relationship of fundamental internationally-recognized worker rights to specified articles of the GATT. And (2) a standing committee within the World Trade Organization to perform the functions of the working group.
Financial Privacy and National Security Enhancement Act - Establishes the Presidential Commission on Financial Privacy and National Security to study and report to Congress on financial service industry practices for protecting the privacy of consumer financial information, the manner and extent to which such practices are regulated by financial service regulators, and ways to improve and strengthen financial information privacy while preserving effective financial information flow for national security. Imposes a moratorium on State financial privacy laws during the period the Commission is performing its duties.
Bias Crimes Compensation Act of 1993 - States that all US individuals shall have the right to be free from bias-motivated crimes of violence . Creates a Federal civil rights claim against anyone who deprives an individual of such right, with compensatory and punitive damages, and injunctive or declaratory relief. Provides limitations, procedures, and rules of construction, including the limitation that random acts of violence, as opposed to bias-motivated acts, shall not be a basis for such a claim.
Sports Agent Responsibility and Trust Act - Prohibits an agent from: (1) directly or indirectly recruiting or soliciting a student athlete to enter into an agency contract by giving false or misleading information or making a false promise or representation or by providing anything of value to the athlete before entering into such a contract. (2) entering into an agency contract with a student athlete without providing the required disclosure document. Or (3) predating or postdating an agency contract. Requires an agent, in conjunction with the signing of an agency contract, to provide to the athlete a separate disclosure document that includes notice that if the athlete signs the contract he or she may lose eligibility to compete as a student athlete in that sport. Requires the student athlete to sign such document before signing the agency contract. Treats a violation of this Act as an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act. Authorizes civil actions by State attorneys general under specified circumstances. Requires the agent and the athlete, within 72 hours after entering into an agency contract or before the next athletic event in which the athlete may participate, whichever occurs first, to provide notice to the educational institution that the athlete has entered into an agency contract. Grants an educational institution a right of action against an agent for damages caused by such agent's failure to provide such notice. Expresses the sense of Congress that States should enact the Uniform Athlete Agents Act of 2000 drafted by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws to protect student athletes and the integrity of amateur sports from unscrupulous sports agents.
Climate Change Drinking Water Adaptation Research Act - Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish and provide funding for a program of directed and applied research, to be conducted through a nonprofit water research foundation and sponsored by drinking water utilities, to assist suppliers of drinking water in adapting to the effects of climate change. Requires research areas to include: (1) water quality and quantity impacts and solutions, (2) impacts on groundwater supplies from carbon sequestration, (3) infrastructure impacts and solutions, (4) desalination, water reuse, and alternative supply technologies, (5) energy efficiency and greenhouse gas minimization, (6) regional and hydrological basin cooperative water management solutions, (7) utilities management, decision support systems, and water management models, (8) greenhouse gas emissions reduction and energy demand management, (9) water conservation and demand management, and (10) communications, education, and public acceptance.
Government Shutdown Prevention Act - Provides for automatic continuing appropriations if any regular appropriation for a fiscal year does not become law before the beginning of such fiscal year, or a joint resolution making continuing appropriations is not in effect. Appropriates amounts necessary to continue any project or activity for which funds were provided in the preceding fiscal year: (1) in the corresponding regular appropriation Act for such preceding fiscal year. Or (2) if such legislation did not become law, then in the joint resolution making continuing appropriations for such preceding fiscal year. Requires the appropriations and funds made available, and authority granted, for any fiscal year for a project or activity to be available for the period beginning with the first day of a lapse in appropriations and ending with the earlier of: (1) the date on which the applicable regular appropriation bill for such fiscal year becomes law or a continuing resolution making appropriations becomes law, as the case may be, or (2) the last day of such fiscal year.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to terminate the credit for large producers of ethanol used as a fuel after 1997. Disallows the credit for alcohol used to produce any ether. Exempts from tax liquids sold for use or used in an off-highway business use. Repeals the reduced rate on ethanol fuel produced from natural gas. Provides for the tax treatment of fuel alcohol in the same manner as other motor fuels. Repeals the reduced rates on alcohol fuels. Exempts partially, in the case of methanol or ethanol, the rate of tax determined under the Highway Trust Fund financing rate. Imposes a floor stock tax on fuel alcohol held by any individual on a specified date and makes such individual liable for such tax. Exempts fuel alcohol held by any individual for any use to the extent a credit or refund of the tax imposed under current law is allowed. Prohibits the imposition of tax on fuel alcohol held in the tank of a motor vehicle or motorboat and for certain amounts of fuel.
Sets forth civil and criminal penalties for violations of such prohibition. Directs the Federal Trade Commission to: (1) promulgate regulations requiring full disclosure by refiners and distributors of their wholesale motor fuel pricing policies, including rebates, incentives, and market enhancement allowances. (2) ensure that all such information is made available to the public. And (3) report to Congress the results of a study whether ownership or operation by a refiner of a facility for the retail sale of motor fuel has anticompetitive effects on the price of motor fuel.
Minuteman Missile National Historic Site Establishment Act of 1998 - Establishes the Minuteman Missile National Historic Site in South Dakota as a unit of the National Park System consisting of lands and interests comprising the areas surrounding the Minuteman II ICBM launch control facilities known as Delta 1 and Delta 9. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire lands and interests within the boundaries of the historic site by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange or transfer from another Federal agency. Prohibits the Secretary from acquiring any lands contaminated with hazardous substances, unless all remedial action necessary to protect human health and the environment has been taken. Requires the Secretary to: (1) prepare a general management plan for the historic site, including an evaluation of a location for a visitor facility and administrative site. And (2) in developing the plan, to consider coordinating and consolidating administrative, management, and personnel function with Badlands National Park. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the Secretary of the Air Force to transfer to the Secretary any funds specifically appropriated to the Air Force for the maintenance, protection, or preservation of the facilities.
Laurie Beechman Ovarian Cancer Commemorative Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $1 dollar coins emblematic of Laurie Beechman, her struggle against ovarian cancer, and her many accomplishments throughout her life. Requires prompt payment of all surcharges from coin sales to Gilda's Club, Incorporated, for purposes relating to the battle against ovarian cancer.
Save America's Utility Infrastructure and Secure America Now Act of 2008 - Amends the Federal Power Act to grant the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) enforcement powers with respect to electric reliability standards. Revises penalty guidelines to subject to federal criminal law any person who violates a FERC-approved electric reliability standard. Requires FERC to issue a rule in connection with electric reliability standards to prohibit disturbances lasting greater than five days at certain substations. Instructs the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to study and report to Congress on gaps in emergency planning preparedness and management as related to specified, vulnerable populations.
Understanding the True Cost of College Act of 2012 - Amends the Higher Education Opportunity Act to refer to the Secretary of Education's model institution of higher eduction (IHE) financial aid offer form as the standard form. Requires the standard form to include certain additional items, such as: (1) information concerning work study assistance, including its dependence on the availability of employment opportunities. (2) the disclosure that federal student loans offer generally more favorable terms and repayment options than private education loans. (3) the deadline for and a summary of the financial aid acceptance process. (4) the academic period covered by the offer and whether the aid is based on full-time or part-time enrollment. And (5) the IHE's most recent cohort default rate compared to the national average cohort default rate, if more than 30 of the school's students take out student loans. Requires more detailed information to be included on the form. Includes among those details, with respect to federal education loans, information: (1) identifying the type and amount of loan recommended for the applicable student, (2) clearly indicating that such loans need to be repaid. (3) disclosing the student's right to borrow less than the recommended amount. And (4) detailing the interest rates, fees, expected monthly repayment amounts, and sums to be paid over the life of such loans. Requires that certain steps be taken to improve the clarity of the form and provide recipients with access to additional information. Directs the Secretary, before finalizing the standard form, to submit it to consumer testing among students, their families, IHEs, secondary school and postsecondary counselors, and nonprofit consumer groups. Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require each IHE receiving federal financial assistance under the Act to use the standard form in providing written or electronic financial aid offers to students enrolled in, or accepted for enrollment in, the IHE.
TANF Recipients' Lifeline Act - Amends part A (TANF) of title IV of the Social Security Act (SSA) to: (1) repeal the five year limit on TANF benefits. (2) require a State to which a TANF grant is made to use appropriate bilingual personnel and printed material in the administration of the State program in those portions of the State in which a substantial number of TANF recipients speak a language other than English. And (3) provide for inflation adjustment of the TANF block grant. Amends the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to exempt TANF benefits from the ban on Federal means-tested public benefits for qualified aliens for the first five years after lawful entry into the United States.
National Heroes Credit Protection Act - Amends the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 to authorize a member of the reserves who is deployed outside the United States for 180 days or more in support of a contingency operation (servicemember) to request that a consumer reporting agency (CRA) include in that servicemember's file a military service deployment explanation (explanation) with respect to an account that was opened by the servicemember before such deployment. Requires: (1) a reseller of credit reporting information to include in any report on a servicemember any explanation placed in such servicemember's file by another CRA. And (2) any user of a consumer credit report containing such explanation to acknowledge the explanation.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to: (1) award grants to encourage the establishment and operation of Teachers Institutes. And (2) provide technical assistance, all or some of which may be provided through the Yale-New Haven Teachers Institute, to assist local educational agencies (LEAs) and institutions of higher education (IHEs) in establishing and operating Teachers Institutes. Sets forth selection criteria, including consideration of the extent to which the proposed Institute will serve schools that have a significant low-income population. Defines a Teachers Institute as a partnership or joint venture between one or more IHEs and one or more LEAs serving one or more schools with significant low-income populations that is established to improve the quality of teaching and learning through collaborative seminars.
Stabilize Medicaid and CHIP Coverage Act - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require a state Medicaid plan to provide 12-month continuous enrollment for an eligible individual, regardless of age. Amends SSA title XXI (CHIP) to require a state CHIP plan also to provide 12-month continuous enrollment for an eligible individual.
Responsible Deficit Reduction Act of 1995 - Amends House Concurrent Resolution 67, 104th Congress to revise the definition of discretionary spending limit so as to reduce and specify new budget authority and outlay levels only for FY 1996 through 2000 . Modifies the deficit reduction assumptions in the conference report on that resolution. Declares that, notwithstanding any other law governing sales of electric power by the Alaska Power Marketing Administration, the Bonneville Power Marketing Administration, the Southern Power Marketing Administration, the Southeastern Power Marketing Administration, or the Western Area Power Marketing Administration : (1) offers of power sales by the Administration shall be made on a nonpreferential basis to public bodies and cooperatives and private persons. (2) sales of power by the Administration shall be made to the persons offering the highest price. And (3) the Administration shall not be required to acquire for sale to any public body or cooperative or any other person any amount of power in excess of that generated by the projects from which the Administration sells power. Amends the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 to: (1) require annual inflation adjustment of storage fees. And (2) establish deadlines for the payment of principal and interest on storage fees. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to modify license application competitive bidding requirements. Removes provisions terminating the authority of the Federal Communications Commission to grant a license or permit under specified provisions. Amends the Agricultural Act of 1949 to end the authority to provide price support for sugar beets and sugarcane. Removes provisions relating to security interests obtained by the Commodity Credit Corporation resulting from security agreements by sugar beet and sugarcane processors. Amends the Commodity Credit Corporation Charter Act to exclude sugar beets and sugarcane from the general power of the Commodity Credit Corporation to support agricultural commodity prices. Amends the Agricultural Adjustment Act to repeal marketing quota provisions relating to information reporting by sugarcane processors, cane sugar refiners, sugar beet processors, manufacturers of crystalline fructose, and producers of sugarcane or sugar beets. Prohibits the Secretary of Agriculture from making price support available for sugar beets or sugarcane under any law, except for settling outstanding loans under specified provisions. Amends the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 to repeal provisions mandating a commodity export market promotion program and provisions mandating a commodity export enhancement program.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code concerning: (1) the treatment of bonds issued to finance electric output facilities, and (2) the special rules for nuclear decommissioning costs.
This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to replace the requirement that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prioritize review of breakthrough medical devices with a requirement that the FDA establish a program to provide priority review for breakthrough medical devices. Prior to submitting an application for approval, a medical device sponsor may request that the FDA designate the medical device for priority review. The FDA must provide a summary of the basis for its determination regarding designation. To expedite the development and review of designated medical devices, the FDA must: assign a team of staff for each device, adopt an efficient process for dispute resolution, provide for interactive communication with the device sponsor, expedite review of manufacturing and quality systems compliance, disclose to the sponsor in advance the topics of any consultation between the FDA and external experts or an advisory committee and provide the sponsor the opportunity to recommend external experts, assign staff to address questions by institutional review committees concerning investigational use of the device. The FDA may: (1) coordinate with the sponsor regarding early agreement on a data development plan. (2) take steps to ensure that the design of clinical trials is as efficient as practicable, (3) utilize timely postmarket data collection. And (4) agree to clinical protocols, subject to an FDA determination that changes are required to prevent an unreasonable risk to the public health or that a substantial scientific issue is essential to the safety or effectiveness of the device.
Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial 1-Cent Coin Redesign Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury, during 2009, to issue one-cent coins with the reverse side bearing four different designs representing different aspects of the life of Abraham Lincoln. Requires the design of the reverse side, after 2009, to bear an image emblematic of President Lincoln's preservation of the United States of America as a single and united country.
Water Infrastructure Improvement Act This bill amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to allow municipalities to develop a plan that integrates wastewater and stormwater management. A permit for a municipal discharge under the national pollutant discharge elimination system that incorporates an integrated plan may integrate all requirements under the Act addressed in the plan, such as requirements relating to combined sewer overflows, sanitary sewer collection systems, and total maximum daily loads. A plan that is incorporated into a permit may include the implementation of green infrastructure and projects to reclaim, recycle, or reuse water. Green infrastructure includes measures that mimic natural processes to store, reuse, or reduce stormwater. Those permits may include a schedule of compliance that allows actions for meeting water quality-based effluent limitations to be implemented over more than one permit term if the compliance schedules are authorized by state water quality standards. A municipality under an administrative order or settlement agreement may request a modification of the order or settlement based on the municipality's integrated plan. The EPA must report on each integrated plan developed and implemented through a permit, order, or judicial consent decree since June 5, 2012, including a description of the control measures, levels of control, estimated costs, and compliance schedules for the requirements implemented through such a plan. The bill establishes an Office of the Municipal Ombudsman in the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to provide: (1) technical assistance to municipalities seeking to comply with the Clean Water Act, and (2) information to the EPA to ensure that agency policies are implemented by all EPA offices. The EPA must promote the use of green infrastructure.
RCAFRAF-Americans Congressional Gold Medal Act This bill directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the award of a Congressional Gold Medal in commemoration of all US nationals who joined the Royal Canadian Air Force or the Royal Air Force during World War II.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on September 15, 2014. Designer Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2014 - Amends the Controlled Substances Act to add specified substances to the list of those included within the definition of anabolic steroid. Provides that a drug or hormonal substance that is not listed and that is derived from, or has a chemical structure substantially similar to, an anabolic steroid that is listed, shall be considered to be an anabolic steroid for purposes of such Act if it: (1) has been created or manufactured with the intent of producing a substance that either promotes muscle growth or otherwise causes a pharmacological effect similar to that of testosterone. Or (2) has been, or is intended to be, promoted in any manner suggesting that consuming it will promote any pharmacological effect similar to that of testosterone. Prohibits a substance from being considered to be a drug or hormonal substance for purposes of such Act if it is: (1) an herb or other botanical, a concentrate, metabolite, or extract of, or a constituent isolated directly from, an herb or other botanical, or a combination of two or more such substances. Or (2) a dietary ingredient for purposes of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and is not anabolic or androgenic. Requires any person claiming the benefit of such an exception to bear the burden of providing the appropriate evidence. Authorizes the Attorney General to issue an order adding a drug or other substance to the definition of anabolic steroid upon finding that: (1) the substance satisfies the criteria for being considered an anabolic steroid, and (2) such addition will assist in preventing abuse or misuse of the substance. Prohibits importing, exporting, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense any anabolic steroid, or any product containing an anabolic steroid, unless it bears a label clearly identifying the anabolic steroid by the nomenclature used by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). Prescribes penalties. Sets forth an exemption from such IUPAC nomenclature requirement if such product is labeled in the manner required under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as described in this Act. Authorizes the Attorney General to: (1) collect data and analyze products to determinenbsp. Whether they contain anabolic steroids and are properly labeled, and (2) publish a list of products containing an anabolic steroid that are not properly labeled.
Internet Freedom Preservation Act of 2008 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to declare that it is US policy to: (1) maintain the freedom to use broadband telecommunications networks, including the Internet, without unreasonable interference from or discrimination by network operators. (2) enable the United States to preserve its global leadership in online commerce and technological innovation. (3) promote the open and interconnected nature of broadband networks that enable consumers to reach, and service providers to offer, content, applications, and services of their choosing. And (4) guard against unreasonable discriminatory favoritism for, or degradation of, content by network operators based upon its source, ownership, or destination on the Internet. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to commence a proceeding on broadband services and consumer rights, including assessing whether broadband network providers: (1) refrain from unreasonably interfering with the ability of consumers to access, use, send, receive, or offer content, applications, or services of their choice, and attach or connect their choice of devices. And (2) add charges for quality of service to certain Internet applications and service providers.
Return of Talent Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish the Return of Talent Program to permit an eligible permanent resident alien and family members to temporarily return to the alien's country of citizenship in order to make a material contribution to that country if the country is engaged in post-conflict reconstruction activities. States that such time abroad shall be considered as US physical and continuous residency for naturalization purposes.
Amends part A (AFDC) of title IV of the Social Security Act to require States to implement workfare programs for able-bodied residents on welfare aged 18 or over with no dependents in order for the State to maintain its current level of Federal funding for AFDC administrative expenses.
Putting Main Street FIRST Act or the Putting Main Street FIRST: Finishing Irresponsible Reckless Speculative Trading Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose a .03 excise tax on the purchase of a security if: (1) such purchase occurs on, or is subject to the rules of, a qualified board or exchange located in the United States. Or (2) the purchaser or seller is a US person. A quot, securityquot. Includes: (1) any share of stock in a corporation, (2) any partnership or beneficial ownership interest in a partnership or trust, (3) any note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness. And (4) derivatives that meet specified criteria. The tax applies to transactions with respect to a derivative if: (1) the derivative is traded on, or is subject to the rules of, a qualified board or exchange located in the United States. Or (2) any party with rights under the derivative is a US person. The bill exempts from such tax: (1) initial issues of securities. And (2) any note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness which is traded on or is subject to the rules of, a qualified board or exchange located in the United States, and has a fixed maturity of not more than 100 days. The tax applies to transactions by a controlled foreign corporation and must be paid by its US shareholders. The bill allows an offset against such tax for contributions to certain tax-favored savings accounts.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to include construction as a qualified purpose for the spending of a qualified zone academy bond . Allows the credit retained by a regulated investment company for its holding of a zone academy bond to be distributed to the company's shareholders. Permits such credits to be stripped.
Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a process under which a physician may request, in writing from a carrier, assistance in addressing questionable codes and procedures under the medicare program. Sets forth provisions concerning: (1) policy development regarding evaluation and management guidelines, and (2) medicare overpayments.
Freedom from Equifax Exploitation Act This bill amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to revise fraud alert provisions required of consumer reporting agencies. A fraud alert must be placed in a consumer's file upon request if the consumer suspects harm from an unauthorized disclosure. The time period for fraud alerts is extended from 90 days to 1 year. The bill also revises provisions relating to 7-year renewable fraud alerts in cases of identity theft. The bill establishes a credit freeze process. A consumer reporting agency must place a free credit freeze on the consumer's file upon a consumer's request, prohibiting a consumer reporting agency from releasing any credit information without the consumer's permission. Consumer reporting agencies must provide procedures for temporarily and permanently lifting the freeze at no charge to the consumer. Consumers are allowed a free credit report when requesting a credit freeze. While the file is subject to a freeze, a consumer reporting agency is prohibited from including the consumer in lists provided to third parties for credit or insurance offers. A consumer reporting agency must provide on the Internet policies and procedures for consumers to: (1) place, temporarily lift, or fully remove a credit freeze. And (2) make required statements for fraud alerts or credit freezes. The bill requires consumer reporting agencies to issue a refund of fees to any consumer who requested a credit freeze beginning September 7, 2017, through the day before enactment of this bill.
TABLE OF CONTENTS: Title I: Age Discrimination Title II: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 Title III: Disabilities Title IV: Family and Medical Leave Title V: Guidelines Title VI: Effective Date Congressional Coverage for Discrimination and Family Leave Act - Title I: Age Discrimination - Amends the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 to cover employees in the House of Representatives and in instrumentalities of the Congress. Authorizes an aggrieved employee to bring a civil action in the appropriate district court against an employing authority or instrumentality of the Congress. Authorizes the court to order such relief, including damages, attorney's fees, and other costs provided by this Act. Requires the employing authority to reimburse the Federal account of the House with non-Federal funds for any damages paid out of the account on behalf of an aggrieved employee. Title II: Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 - Amends the Civil Rights Act of 1991 to authorize an employee in the House of Representatives or in an instrumentality of the Congress to bring a civil action in the appropriate United States district court against his or her employing authority or the appropriate instrumentality. Authorizes the court to order such relief specified under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revised Statutes. Limits the aggregate amount of compensatory and punitive damages to $50,000. Authorizes the complaining party to demand a jury trial. Prohibits the court from informing the jury of the dollar limitation imposed under this Act. Authorizes the court to allow the prevailing party a reasonable attorney's fees as part of the costs. Requires the employing authority to reimburse the Federal account of the House with non-Federal funds for any damages paid out of the account on behalf of an aggrieved employee. Title III: Disabilities - Amends the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 to authorize an employee in the House of Representatives or in an instrumentality of the Congress to bring a civil action in the appropriate district court against his or her employing authority or the appropriate instrumentality. Authorizes the court to order such relief specified under the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revised Statutes. Limits the aggregate amount of compensatory and punitive damages to $50,000. Authorizes the complaining party to demand a jury trial. Prohibits the court from informing the jury of the dollar limitation imposed under this Act. Authorizes the court to allow the prevailing party a reasonable attorney's fees as part of the costs. Requires the employing authority to reimburse the Federal account of the House with non-Federal funds for any damages paid out of the account on behalf of an aggrieved employee. Title IV: Family and Medical Leave - Amends the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 to authorize an employee to bring a civil action in the appropriate United States district court against the employee's employing authority or the appropriate instrumentality of the Congress. Authorizes the court to order such relief, including damages, interest, attorney's fees, expert witness fees, and other costs specified by the Act. Applies the rights and protections under title I of the Act to employees of each instrumentality of the Congress, except for the exemption concerning highly compensated employees. Title V: Guidelines - Requires implementing guidelines issued by any House committee for this Act to be published in the Congressional Record at least 60 days before such implementation. Title VI: Effective Date - Makes this Act effective three months after the date of enactment.
Health Care Access for Small Business Act of 2003 - Amends the Social Security Act to add a new title XXII to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to promulgate regulations for the certification of three-share programs for purposes of offering a refundable tax credit to small businesses who participate in such programs where: (1) not more than 30 percent of the cost of the monthly premium for health coverage is paid by the qualified employee who lacks access to health coverage and desires coverage. And (2) at least 70 percent of such cost is paid by the qualified employer of such a qualified employee. Authorizes the Administrator to award startup grants to eligible entities to establish three-share programs for certification. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for a refundable tax credit in the case of an eligible employer in an amount equal to 40 percent of the costs of a three-share program resulting from the participation of the taxpayer in such program during the taxable year.
Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act - Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the United States should continue to support diplomatic efforts in the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the U. N. Security Council to end Iran's illicit nuclear activities. (2) diplomatic efforts with Iran are more likely to be effective if the President is empowered with the explicit authority to impose additional sanctions on the government of Iran. (3) it should be US policy to encourage foreign governments to direct state-owned and private entities to cease all investment in, and support of, Iran's energy sector and all exports of refined petroleum products to Iran. (4) the President is urged to impose sanctions on the Central Bank of Iran and any other Iranian financial institution engaged in proliferation activities or support of terrorist groups. (5) the Department of the Treasury should continue to work with allies to protect the international financial system from deceptive and illicit practices by Iranian financial institutions involved in proliferation activities or support of terrorist groups. (6) US concerns regarding Iran are strictly the result of that governments actions. And (7) the people of the United States have feelings of friendship for the people of Iran and regret that developments in recent decades have created impediments to that friendship. Amends the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 to direct the President to impose two or more current sanctions under such Act if a person has, with actual knowledge, made an investment of $20 million or more that directly and significantly contributed to Iran's ability to develop its petroleum resources. Directs the President to impose: (1) sanctions established under this Act if a person has, with actual knowledge, sold, leased, or provided to Iran any goods, services, technology, information, or support that would allow Iran to maintain or expand its domestic production of refined petroleum resources, including any assistance in refinery construction, modernization, or repair. And (2) sanctions established under this Act if a person has, with actual knowledge, provided Iran with refined petroleum resources or engaged in any activity that could contribute to Iran's ability to import refined petroleum resources, including providing shipping, insurance, or financing services for such activity. Establishes additional sanctions prohibiting specified foreign exchange, banking, and property transactions. Includes references to refined petroleum resources in a presidential report to Congress requesting waiver of sanctions for purposes of national interest. Directs the President to report to the appropriate congressional committees every six months regarding any person who has: (1) provided Iran with refined petroleum resources. (2) sold, leased, or provided to Iran any goods, services, or technology that would allow Iran to maintain or expand its domestic production of refined petroleum resources. Or (3) engaged in any activity that could contribute to the enhancement of Iran's ability to import refined petroleum resources.
No Second Chances for Murderers, Rapists, or Child Molesters Act of 1998 - Expresses the sense of the Congress that any individual convicted of: (1) murder should receive the death penalty or be imprisoned for life without the possibility of parole. And (2) rape or a dangerous sexual offense involving a child under age 14 should be imprisoned for life without the possibility of parole. Requires the Attorney General to transfer the following amounts from Federal law enforcement assistance funds for a State that convicted a person of a first offense of murder, rape, or a dangerous sexual offense to a State that convicts that person for a subsequent such offense: (1) up to $100,000 for transfer to each victim of the subsequent offense. And (2) the cost of incarceration, prosecution, and apprehension of such person. Sets forth provisions regarding situations where a person has a prior conviction in more than one State. Requires the United States Sentencing Commission to amend the Federal sentencing guidelines to provide that whoever is guilty of: (1) murder shall be punished by death or by life imprisonment. And (2) rape or a dangerous sexual offense shall be punished by life imprisonment. Directs the Attorney General to collect and distribute data to the President, Members of Congress, State governments, and officials of localities and penal and other institutions participating in the Uniform Crime Reports program which includes: (1) the number of murders, rapes, and dangerous sexual offenses committed by persons previously convicted of one of these offenses. And (2) the percentage of cases in which a person convicted of murder, rape, or a dangerous sexual offense in one State commits a second offense in another State.
Medicare Pharmacist Services Coverage Act of 2001 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA), as amended by the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000, to provide for Medicare coverage of pharmacist services.
Strengthening Entrepreneurs' Economic Development Act of 2013 - Directs the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA) to establish and carry out a direct lending program for small businesses . Sets forth provisions governing the amount and repayment period of, and interest rate on, such a loan. Authorizes the Administrator to collect a fee from the borrower. Directs the Administrator to: (1) issue guidance regarding prudent underwriting standards for such loans. (2) establish a process of making each loan application available to lenders for the purpose of originating, underwriting, closing, and servicing the loan. (3) first give priority to lenders within 50 miles of the principal office of the applicant, then make such applications available to lenders in the Preferred Lenders Program, and then consider such a loan for origination, underwriting, closing, and servicing by the Administrator. (4) offer to sell loans made under the program through the semi-annual public solicitation of offers to purchase. And (5) maintain and service loans that are not sold through asset sales. Amends the Small Business Act to require the SBA, for each small business loan in excess of $2 million that is approved under such Act, to collect a fee not to exceed a certain percentage of the outstanding balance of the deferred participation share of the loan as necessary to reduce to zero the cost to the SBA of making such loan.
Generating American Income and Infrastructure Now Act This bill requires the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to sell certain distressed notes and other obligations held by USDA. The sale must be conducted under terms and procedures established by the Department of the Treasury and specified in the bill. Of the proceeds from the sale: (1) 50 must be deposited into an account for carrying out infrastructure projects in low-income communities, and (2) 50 must be retained in the Treasury for deficit reduction.
Bisti PRLA Dispute Resolution Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, if any of specified coal preference right lease applications are withdrawn by the holder or holders of those applications, to issue to each such holder a certificate of bidding rights that constitutes the combined fair market value of the coal reserves for each coal preference right lease application withdrawn by the holder. Provides that such withdrawals and issuances shall occur without any further adjudication of coal preference right lease applications. Directs the Secretary to establish a panel to determine the fair market value of the coal reserves of any coal preference right applications withdrawn under this Act. Instructs the Secretary to contract with a qualified coal reserve appraiser to assist the panel. Directs the Secretary, after the withdrawal of a coal preference right lease application, to: (1) issue to the Navajo Nation patents to the land, including the mineral estate, subject to such withdrawn application in full and final satisfaction of the right of the Navajo Nation to select land in New Mexico and to facilitate land consolidation and mineral development in northwest New Mexico. And (2) issue a certificate of bidding rights in the amount of the fair market value of the coal reserves of such application. Provides that the Secretary's duties in issuing such patents and certificates shall be considered nondiscretionary and enforceable in a mandamus proceeding. Sets forth provisions regarding the use of exchange bidding rights.
Durham Woods Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1995 - Amends Federal pipeline safety law to instruct the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations requiring: (1) periodic inspections of gas pipeline facilities with the use of instrumented internal inspection devices at least once every seven years in high-density population areas. And (2) transmission pipeline operators to institute a monthly inspection program for leaks and other specified hazards and line markers along pipeline rights-of-way. Declares it is a criminal offense to fail to report damage to a gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facility after knowingly and willfully engaging in excavation activities without taking specified steps to establish the location of underground facilities. Increases the civil and criminal penalties for violations of such law. Directs the Secretary to: (1) make grants to the States to promote public awareness programs regarding the dangers of excavating near gas pipelines. (2) study and report to the Congress on the safety of all gas transmission pipelines in the State of New Jersey and on an assessment of the risks to public safety and the environment posed by gas pipeline transportation. And (3) develop a comprehensive mapping program to identify the specific location of all gas and hazardous liquid transmission pipelines , and gathering lines, in the country.
Suburban and Community Forestry and Open Space Initiative Act of 2001 - Amends the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 to establish in the Forest Service the Suburban and Community Forestry and Open Space Initiative, which shall provide grants to preserve private forest land and contain suburban sprawl.
Appalachian Regional Commission Reform Act This bill declares that the mission of the Appalachian Regional Commission shall be to focus primarily on poverty reduction and economic development in areas in the Appalachian region with the most persistent poverty. The headquarters of the commission shall be located in that region. The bill increases from 50 to 60 the minimum amount of the grant expenditures approved by the commission that shall support activities or projects that benefit severely and persistently distressed counties and areas. The commission shall: (1) allocate at least 60 of the funds made available each fiscal year for its Area Development Program for projects in counties designated as distressed, and (2) submit an annual report on the allocation of program funds to such counties.
Minority National Security Scholarship Act of 2002 - Directs the Secretary of Education to establish a program for awarding: (1) scholarships to minority American undergraduates to enable them to study, for at least one academic semester, in critical countries in which few minority students are studying. (2) fellowships to enable minority American graduate students to pursue education in the United States in the disciplines of foreign languages, area studies, and other international fields, and to enter into an agreement to work for a Federal agency or office in the field studied. And (3) grants to enable institutions of higher education to establish, operate, or improve programs in foreign languages, area studies, and other international fields in which minority students, educators, and Government employees are deficient in learning. Requires a recipient of any fellowship, or scholarship that provides assistance for periods that aggregate 12 months or more, to maintain satisfactory academic progress and to work for the Federal Government or in the field of education in the area of study for which the scholarship or fellowship was awarded for a period specified by the Secretary. Requires any recipient failing to meet those requirements to reimburse the United States for the amount of assistance provided under the program, with interest.
Full Faith in Veterans Act of 2008 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to accept as sufficient proof of service-connection of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) alleged to have been incurred in or aggravated by active military service a diagnosis of PTSD by a mental health professional, together with a written determination that such disorder is related to the veteran's service, if consistent with the circumstances, conditions, or hardships of such service, notwithstanding that there is no official record of such incurrence or aggravation during such service. Requires the Secretary to resolve every reasonable doubt in favor of the veteran. Allows PTSD service-connection to be rebutted by clear and convincing evidence. Directs the Secretary to require Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees responsible for rating disabilities, evaluating claims for disability compensation for PTSD, or adjudicating disability compensation ratings to complete a certification program established by the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to: (1) conduct audits of examinations of veterans who submit claims for disability compensation for PTSD. (2) update the schedule for rating disabilities with respect to PTSD, traumatic brain injury, and other mental disorders, (3) implement new PTSD criteria, (4) implement a holistic treatment approach for veterans with PTSD. And (5) require VA employees responsible for adjudicating disability compensation ratings to take into consideration veterans' treatment records from readjustment counseling centers and written opinions of mental health professionals.
Rural Rental Housing Act of 2003 - Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to provide rural rental assistance, with applicant priority given to very low-income families, low-income communities, rural areas, and communities with severe lack of affordable rental housing.
Promoting Financial Literacy and Economic Opportunity Act of 2015 This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow up to 20 for-profit organizations in any taxable year a business-related tax credit for 50 of the amount paid or incurred to carry out activities to improve the quality of student understanding of personal finance and economics. The Department of the Treasury shall determine which for-profit organizations are eligible for the credit, ensuring that a majority of credit recipients are: (1) either a socially and economically disadvantaged small business concern, a small business concern owned and controlled by women, or a small business concern that is at least 51 owned by veterans, or (2) do not have more than $60 billion in assets. In determining the eligibility of a for-profit organization, Treasury shall give priority to organizations that have programs serving either urban or rural underserved areas.
Veterans' Health Care Policy Enhancement Act of 2008 - Prohibits the collection by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) of copayments or other fees for hospital or nursing home care in the case of catastrophically disabled veterans. Repeals a current requirement that, in order for a family member of a non-service-connected disabled veteran to be eligible for counseling services, the counseling must be essential to permit the discharge of the veteran from the hospital. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to: (1) develop and implement a comprehensive policy on the management of pain experienced by veterans enrolled for VA health care services, (2) periodically revise the policy. And (3) report annually through FY2018 to the congressional veterans' committees on policy implementation. Requires the Secretary, within five years after the enactment of this Act, to establish up to seven consolidated patient accounting centers for conducting industry-modeled regionalized VA billing and collection activities. Repeals a provision of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 requiring written informed consent for HIV testing among veterans.
Habeas Corpus Revision Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal judicial code to revise provisions governing habeas corpus procedures, particularly in capital cases. Establishes a statute of limitations of one year for the filing of an application for habeas corpus relief from a sentence of death. Prescribes periods during which such time requirement shall be tolled, including any period during which the applicant is not represented by counsel. Provides for dismissal of an application for failure to comply with such time requirement, except where the waiver of such requirement is warranted by exceptional circumstances. Specifies requirements for stays of execution in capital cases. Prohibits the court from applying a new rule representing a clear break from precedent announced by the US Supreme Court that could not have reasonably been anticipated at the time the claimant's sentence became final in State court, unless such rule: (1) places the claimant's conduct beyond the power of the criminal law-making authority to proscribe or punish with the sanction imposed. Or (2) requires the observance of procedures without which the likelihood of an accurate conviction or valid capital sentence is seriously diminished. Bars the court from presuming a finding of fact made in certain State court proceedings to be correct or from declining to consider a claim on the ground that it was not raised in such a proceeding at the time or in the manner prescribed by State law, unless: (1) the relevant State maintains a mechanism for providing legal services to indigents in capital cases which meets specified requirements. (2) the State actually appointed an attorney to represent an applicant who was eligible for and did not waive such appointment in the State proceeding in which the finding of fact was made or the default occurred. And (3) any attorney so appointed substantially met specified qualification standards and the performance standards established by the appointing authority. Requires that, in the case of an applicant for Federal habeas corpus relief under sentence of death, a claim presented in a second or successive application be dismissed unless the applicant shows that: (1) the basis of the claim could not have been discovered by the exercise of reasonable diligence before the applicant filed the prior application, or the failure to raise the claim in the prior application was due to action by State officials in violation of the US Constitution. And (2) the facts underlying the claim would be sufficient, if proven, to undermine the court's confidence in the applicant's guilt of the offense for which the capital sentence was imposed, or in the validity of that sentence under Federal law. Grants an applicant under sentence of death the right to appeal without a certification of probable cause, except after denial of a second or successive application. Requires the district court, in adjudicating habeas corpus cases, to: (1) exercise independent judgment in ascertaining the pertinent Federal legal standards and in applying those standards to the facts when adjudicating the merits of a particular ground. (2) issue habeas corpus relief at any time on behalf of an applicant under sentence of death imposed either in Federal or State court who offers newly discovered evidence which, had it been presented to the trier of fact or sentencing authority at trial, would probably have resulted in an acquittal of the offense for which the death sentence was imposed or a sentence other than death. And (3) decline to consider a habeas corpus claim under specified circumstances.
United States-Afghanistan Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) Act of 2011 - Directs the President to seek to enter into a bilateral status of forces agreement with the government of Afghanistan which shall: (1) prohibit the permanent basing or military presence of US Armed Forces in Afghanistan. (2) provide, no later than one year after the date on which such agreement is entered into, for the complete redeployment from Afghanistan of the US Armed Forces and Department of Defense (DOD) civilian employees and contractors. And (3) establish that the temporary presence of US Armed Forces in Afghanistan is at the request of the government of Afghanistan. Authorizes such agreement to provide for specific activities or missions of the US Armed Forces in Afghanistan. Expresses the sense of Congress that the President should submit such agreement to the Senate for its advice and consent to ratification as a treaty or alternatively the President should request statutory authorization for such agreement by Congress.
Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2016 This bill requires a state or local government that receives funding under the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program to train law enforcement officers on de-escalation techniques. The Department of Justice (DOJ) may reduce by up to 20 the JAG allocation of a state or local government that fails to comply. DOJ must collect data on the efforts of state and local governments to enhance de-escalation training for law enforcement officers. Additionally, a state or local government that receives JAG program funding must enact a law, policy, or procedure that establishes an affirmative duty on a law enforcement officer to use de-escalation techniques. DOJ must reduce by 15 the JAG allocation of a state or local government that fails to enact such law, policy, or procedure. DOJ must issue guidance on compliance with these requirements.
Small Business Modernization Act of 2004 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) terminate subchapter S corporation elections after 2004 and subchapter S status after 2014 and to allow privately-held domestic corporations, in lieu of electing subchapter S treatment, to elect to be treated as partnerships for tax purposes. (2) set forth rules for the tax treatment of former subchapter S corporations electing partnership status. And (3) exclude from net earnings from self-employment partnership income attributable to capital.
VA Major Construction Authorization and Expiring Authorities Extension Act of 2012 - Title I: Construction Authorizations - Authorizes the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to carry out major medical facility projects (projects) in FY2013 at VA medical centers in: (1) Seattle, Washington, (2) Dallas, Texas. And (3) Miami, Florida. Authorizes appropriations for such projects. Provides project funding limitations. Title II: Extensions of Certain Expiring Authorities - Extends through FY2013 VA default procedures with respect to guaranteed loans to veterans. Extends through 2013 VA authority: (1) to operate a regional office in the Republic of the Philippines. (2) to provide treatment, rehabilitation, and related services for seriously mentally ill and homeless veterans. (3) to provide expanded services and housing assistance to homeless veterans, (4) for the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans. And (5) to use contract physicians to perform VA medical disability examinations.
Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy Act or the BRIDGE Act This bill amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to provide that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): (1) shall grant a three-year provisional protected presence to a qualifying alien, (2) may not remove the alien from the United States unless such protected presence is rescinded, and (3) shall provide such alien with employment authorization. An alien is eligible for such protected presence and employment authorization if the alien: (1) was born after June 15, 1981. (2) entered the United States before attaining 16 years of age, (3)nbsp, nbsp, nbsp, continuously resided in the United States since June 15, 2007. (4) was physically but unlawfully present in the United States on June 15. (5) on the date the alien files an application the alien is present in the United States, is enrolled in school or in an education program assisting students in obtaining a high school diploma, has graduated or obtained a certificate of completion from high school or a general educational development certificate, or is an honorably discharged US Coast Guard or Armed Forces veteran. (6) has not been convicted of a felony, a significant misdemeanor, or three or more misdemeanors not occurring on the same date and not arising out of the same act. And (7) does not otherwise pose a threat to national security or a threat to public safety. The bill: (1) provides for confidentiality of application information, with certain national security and law enforcement exceptions. And (2) sets forth the criteria under which DHS may rescind protected presence. An alien granted protected presence is not considered to be unlawfully present in the United States during such period. An alien must be at least 15 years old, unless in removal proceedings, to apply for protected presence. DHS may provide for an application fee and for fee exemptions. DHS may not: (1) remove an alien who appears prima facie eligible for protected presence while the alien's application is pending, or (2) refer individuals whose cases have been deferred pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program (DACA) or who have been granted protected presence to US Immigration and Customs Enforcement. A DACA alien is deemed to have protected presence through the expiration date of his or her deferred action status.
Agricultural Credit Equity Act of 1993 - Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to provide for indexing of guaranteed agricultural real estate and operating loan limits in high cost areas. Eliminates maximum property limits in the down payment loan program. Prohibits the denial of agricultural real estate, operating, or emergency loans based upon: (1) a farm's having more than two full-time employees, or (2) certain grower-shipper agreements.
Social Security Preservation through Individual Choice Enhancement Act - Amends the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 to allow individual taxpayers an election to claim the 2 reduction in employment taxes under such Act in any calendar year beginning in or after 2012. Amends title II of the Social Security Act to increase the applicable social security retirement age by one month for each calendar year that a taxpayer elects a reduction in employment taxes under this Act.
Requires automobile dealers to disclose to each consumer at the time of purchase of a new automobile, and to include in the automobile's owner's manual, information on: (1) the presence and location of an event data recorder (EDR) in such automobile. And (2) the type of information recorded by the EDR, how such information is recorded, and the possible use of such information in law enforcement proceedings. Requires the EDR and any data recorded to be considered the property of the vehicle owner. Prohibits the retrieval of EDR data by anyone other than the vehicle owner, except : (1) with the owner's consent, (2) in response to a court order. (3) by a vehicle dealer or an automotive technician for servicing the vehicle. Or (4) for improving vehicle safety, provided the identity of the registered owner or driver is not disclosed. Prohibits persons from manufacturing automobiles for sale in the United States after 2008 that are equipped with EDRs, unless those EDRs can be disabled by the consumer. Treats a violation of EDR requirements of this Act as an unfair or deceptive act or practice under the Federal Trade Commission Act.
Clean Alternatives for Energy Independence Act of 2005 - Repeals certain tax benefits relating to oil and natural gas enacted by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to increase: (1) the tax credit for investment in residential and business fuel cell property. (2) the tax credit for investment in fuel cell motor and advanced lean burn technology motor vehicles. (3) the number of hybrid and advanced lean burn technology vehicles eligible for the alternative motor vehicle tax credit. And (4) the tax credit for investment in commercial and residential alternative fuel vehicle refueling property. Extends through 2012 the tax credit for business fuel cell property. Extends through 2019 the tax credits for: (1) investment in qualified fuel cell motor vehicles, (2) investment in alternative fuel vehicle refueling hydrogen-related property .
Irrigation Subsidy Reduction Act of 1996 - Amends the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 to define the terms legal entity, operator, and single farm operation. Directs the Secretary of the Interior, for each parcel of land to which irrigation water is delivered or proposed to be delivered, to identify a single individual or legal entity as the owner, lessee, or operator. Allows irrigation water to be delivered at less than the normal per-acre cost to either: (1) a qualified recipient that reports gross farm income from a single farm operation in excess of $500,000 per taxable year. Or (2) a limited recipient that received such water on or before October 1, 1981, and that reports gross farm income in excess of such amount. Provides an inflation adjustment for calendar years after 1997. Requires lessees of an irrigation district to furnish such district a certification of compliance with the Act. Allows the Secretary to require a lessee or operator to submit for examination a copy of a tax return for any taxable year in which the single farm operation of the lessee or operator received irrigation water at less than full cost. Repeals a provision exempting district lands held in trust from Federal reclamation ownership and cost pricing limitations. Directs the Secretary to establish penalties for failure to comply with provisions of the Act. Directs the Secretaries of the Interior, the Treasury, and Agriculture to enter into a memorandum of understanding to permit the Secretary of the Interior to have access to and use available information collected or maintained by either the Department of the Treasury or Agriculture that would aid in enforcement of the ownership and pricing limitations of Federal reclamation law.
Independent Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Investigative Commission Act - Establishes the Independent Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Investigative Commission to investigate and issue a final report on the period following the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s to the present. Requires the Commission to investigate: (1) the policies, practices, and board decisions of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation from the 1990s through the present that led to their financial instability and subsequent federal conservatorship. (2) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's involvement, if any, in the creation and proliferation of the securitized mortgage instrument, and how such instrument affected their solvency. (3) the role of their boards of directors in developing their accounting and financial risk policies. (4) the actions of each board member or members, executive officer or officers, or the board member or members and executive officer or officers responsible for making the financial decisions to grow the enterprises' portfolios of subprime mortgage loans. And (5) the board member or members, executive officer or officers, or the board member or members and executive officer or officers responsible for making the decisions that may have encouraged the proliferation of the subprime mortgage industry.
Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2017 This bill requires the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to promulgate a final rule for flame mitigation devices in portable flammable liquid fuel containers that impede the propagation of flame into the container, unless the CPSC publishes a determination that a voluntary standard developed by a standard development organization meets the intent of this bill. Either the promulgated standard or the voluntary standard shall be treated as a consumer product safety rule. If a standard development organization subsequently revises a voluntary standard, the organization must notify the CPSC and the revision becomes enforceable unless, within 90 days after receiving notice, the CPSC determines that the revised standard does not meet this bill's requirements. The CPSC must undertake a campaign to educate consumers about dangers associated with portable fuel containers near an open flame or other source of ignition. The bill amends the Children's Gasoline Burn Prevention Act to extend child-resistance requirements for closures on portable gasoline containers to receptacles for gasoline, kerosene, or diesel fuel produced or distributed for sale to, or use by, consumers for transport of, or for refueling of internal combustion engines with, gasoline, kerosene, or diesel fuel.
This bill revises the requirements for passenger vessels that are exempt from fire-retardant materials standards. Vessels in operation before January 1, 1968, that operate within inland waterways are exempt from the new requirements until December 1, 2028. Exempt vessel operators must follow certain requirements including notifying prospective passengers in writing prior to the sale of any ticket for boarding and making annual structural alterations to at least 10 of areas of the vessel that are not constructed of fire-retardant materials. Additionally, the Department of Transportation (DOT)must conduct an annual inspection of any vessel that is exempted from fire-retardant materials standards. DOTmay withdraw a certificate of inspection for any vessel that does not comply with requirements under this bill.
Student Success Act of 2001 - Authorizes individuals to enter into human capital investment contracts (HCICs) to obtain funds for the payment of tuition and other related expenses of postsecondary education by agreeing to pay to the holder of the contract a specified percentage of the individual's future earned income. Makes any HCIC that complies with required terms and conditions under this Act a valid, binding, and enforceable contract notwithstanding any State law limiting or otherwise regulating assignments of future wages or other income. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that: (1) an HCIC shall not be treated as a debt instrument for specified purposes. And (2) amounts received by the student for entering into an HCIC shall be includible in such student's gross income for certain tax purposes. Sets forth conditions for allowable depreciation deductions with respect to HCICs. Allows a tax deduction, in determining adjusted gross income, for an individual's obligated payments under an HCIC. Deems income derived from, or gain from the sale or other disposition of, an HCIC as qualifying income which would exempt a publicly traded partnership from treatment as a corporation. Amends the Investment Company Act of 1940 to provide for pooling of HCICs into investment companies. Amends Federal bankruptcy law to except from discharge in bankruptcy, under certain conditions, any payment owed by the debtor as a result of a payment made to or for the benefit of the debtor under an HCIC. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to provide that no portion of any amounts received by a student for entering into an HCIC shall be included as income or assets in the computation of expected family contribution for any program funded in whole or in part under HEA.
National Strategic Gasoline Reserve for Purposes of National Security Act of 2009 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish a Strategic Gasoline Reserve system with a total capacity of 10 million barrels of regular unleaded gasoline. Directs the Secretary to: (1) transmit to Congress, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the governor of each state in which a Gasoline Reserve will be sited a plan for the transportation of its contents to wholesale or retail markets in the event of an emergency sale. (2) complete the process of filling the Gasoline Reserve to a minimum of 90 within two years of submitting a transportation plan to Congress. (3) review the gasoline supply annually to ensure the reserves in the Gasoline Reserve do not exceed their shelf life. And (4) have in place a plan for assuring that the inventory is sold and replaced in a manner that assures the integrity of the product at all times. Directs the Secretary of Energy to sell gasoline from the Gasoline Reserve if the governor of an affected state submits a written request and the President issues an Executive order requiring immediate release from any or all Gasoline Reserves at any time that the President determines certain emergency conditions are satisfied.
Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response Act of 2001 - SAFER Act of 2001 - Amends the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to authorize the Secretary of Labor to make matching grants for up to 75 percent of the costs of projects to hire firefighters to eligible States, local governments, tribal organizations, or other public entities, or multi-jurisdictional or regional consortia of such entities.
Federal Supervisor Training Act of 2016 This bill requires federal agencies to establish supervisor training programs that: (1) require supervisors and management officials to have individual development plans for training on actions, options, and strategies to use for supervisory functions regarding the performance and productivity of agency employees, (2) train supervisors on prohibited personnel practices and employee rights. And (3) provide experienced supervisor mentors to advise new or underperforming supervisors. The bill expands manager training program requirements for employee performance appraisals, mentoring, and management of unacceptable employee performance into mandatory supervisor and manager training programs that also include supervisor training on: fostering equal opportunities and fairness in the workplace. Using probationary periods to examine whether employees are performing at an acceptable level to continue their employment, addressing reports of hostile work environment, retaliation, or harassment. Meeting supervisor competencies established by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) or the employing agency. And collaborating with human resources to recruit, select, appraise, and reward employees based on organizational goals, budget considerations, and staffing needs. After initial training on each program component, supervisors must complete subsequent training every three years. Agencies must develop a career track for mission critical technical expert employees that affords such employees the opportunity for career advancement without being required to be appointed to a management or supervisory position. The OPM must issue guidance to agencies on competencies supervisors are expected to meet in order to effectively manage the performance of employees. Each agency must assess the performance of supervisors and the overall capacity of its supervisors.
Reform Act of 2004 - Amends the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to revise the definition of political committee to include any committee, club, association, or other group of persons that has as its major purpose the nomination or election of one or more candidates . Treats certain expenses by major purpose organizations as expenditures subject to the limitations and reporting requirements of such Act. Provides that any disbursement by separate segregated fund or nonconnected committee shall be allocated between Federal and non-Federal accounts in accordance with this Act and regulations prescribed by the Federal Election Commission. States that disbursements allocated to non-Federal accounts may be paid only from a qualified non-Federal account. Prohibits a separate segregated fund or nonconnected committee from accepting more than $25,000 in funds for its qualified non-Federal account from any one individual in any calendar year.
Cavernous Angioma Research Resource Act of 2013 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), acting through the Director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, to expand and intensify NIH programs regarding research and related activities concerning cavernous angioma. Authorizes grants and cooperative agreements to public or nonprofit private entities for such activities. Authorizes the Director of NIH to: (1) conduct basic, clinical, and translational research on cavernous angioma. (2) identify and support the development of a clinical and research coordinating center with the potential of coordinating a multi-site clinical drug trial for cavernous angioma. And (3) identify and support the development of clinical and research participation centers with the potential to participate in such a trial. Requires coordinating and participation centers to expand training programs for medical and allied health clinicians and scientists in clinical practice and research relevant to cavernous angioma. Authorizes the Director to provide for the participation of NIH agencies in a consortium to facilitate the exchange of information and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the research effort. Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to award grants and cooperative agreements, including technical assistance, to public or nonprofit private entities for: (1) the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on cavernous angioma. And (2) epidemiological activities, including collecting and analyzing information on the number, incidence, correlates, and symptoms of cases and the clinical utility of specific practice patterns. Requires establishment of a national surveillance program as part of such activities. Requires the Commissioner of Food and Drugs (FDA) to: (1) work with clinical centers, investigators, and advocates to support appropriate investigational new drug applications under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act in order to hasten the pace of clinical trials for cavernous angioma. And (2) where applicable in rare subpopulations of cavernous angioma requiring unique pharmacological intervention, including those with the Common Hispanic Mutation or CCM3 gene mutations, support appropriate requests for designations of orphan drugs.
Medicare Part D Drug Class Protection Act of 2007 - Amends part D of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require that Medicare prescription drug plans using formularies cover all drugs included in six specified therapeutic categories. Sets forth special requirements for reconsideration of coverage determinations, and appeals for drugs included in such categories. Establishes reporting requirements for drugs in these categories.
Federal Forage Fee Act of 1993 - Subjects grazing operations on Federal land to applicable Federal, State, and local environmental and land use requirements. Sets forth a forage fee formula for lands under the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture and the Department of the Interior.
Nuclear Innovation Act This bill directs the Department of Energy (DOE) to carry out a program for enhancing the US capability to develop new reactor technologies through high-performance computation modeling and simulation techniques. Such program shall coordinate with relevant federal agencies through the National Strategic Computing Initiative while taking into account specified objectives. DOE shall also carry out a program to: enable the testing and demonstration of reactor concepts proposed and funded by the private sector, and leverage the technical expertise of relevant federal agencies and national laboratories to minimize the time required to enable construction and operation of privately funded experimental reactors at national laboratories or other DOE-owned sites. These reactors shall operate to: enable physical validation of novel reactor concepts. Resolve technical uncertainty and increase practical knowledge relevant to safety, resilience, security, and functionality of first-of-a-kind reactor concepts, and generate research and development to improve nascent technologies.
Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to waive certain Federal statutory and regulatory requirements, with specified exceptions, for States, local educational agencies, and schools as part of systemic educational reform and efforts to meet the national education goals for all children. Allows additional waivers for specified related programs, with the approval of the appropriate Federal agency. Sets forth requirements for waiver applications, restrictions, evaluations, technical assistance, and reports.
Title III: Rural Health Care Improvements (sic) - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to provide that, starting for discharges on or after October 1, 2002, hospitals will receive payments based on a blend of their current disproportionate share (DSH) adjustment and the current DSH adjustment for large urban hospitals. Limits such new DSH adjustment to ten percent for any hospital that is not classified as a rural referral center. Provides that for discharges occurring: (1) during FY 2003, the average standardized amount for hospitals located other than in a large urban area shall be increased by half the difference between the average standardized amount for hospitals located in large urban areas for such fiscal year, and such amount determined for other hospitals for such fiscal year. And (2) during FY 2004 and afterwards, the Secretary shall compute one standardized amount for all hospitals increased by the applicable percentage increase, and use this amount to pay all hospitals. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services, after revising the market basket cost weights to reflect the most current data available, to establish a frequency for revising such weights to reflect the most current data available more frequently than once every five years. Revises the critical access hospital (CAH) program to: (1) reinstate payments made on a periodic interim payment basis for inpatient services starting with payments made on or after January 1, 2003. (2) prohibit the Secretary from requiring as a condition for applying the special physician payment adjustment with respect to a CAH, that each physician providing professional services in the hospital must assign billing rights with respect to such services. (3) direct the Secretary to specify standards for determining whether a CAH has sufficiently strong seasonal variations in patient admissions to justify a five bed increase in the number of inpatient acute beds it can maintain and still retain its classification as a CAH. And (4) extend the authorization of appropriations for the Medicare rural hospital flexibility program through FY 2007. Prohibits the Secretary from recouping overpayments made for outpatient critical access hospital services under Medicare part B for services furnished in cost reporting periods that began before October 1, 2002, insofar as such overpayments are attributable to payment being based on 80 percent of reasonable costs . Amends the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA) to extend through December 31, 2004, the ten percent additional payment for home health care furnished to beneficiaries residing in rural areas. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on differences in payment amounts under the physician fee schedule for physicians' services in different geographic areas. Amends SSA title XI to provide that any remuneration in the form of a contract, lease, grant, loan, or other agreement between a public or non-profit private health center and any individual or entity providing goods or services to the health center is not a violation of the anti-kickback statute if such agreement contributes to the ability of the health center to maintain or increase the availability or quality of services provided to a medically underserved population served by the health center.
Temporarily designates Poland as a program country for purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act's visa waiver program (VWP), notwithstanding designation requirements of current law. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to determine the nonimmigrant visa overstay rate for Polish nationals for the elapsed period of temporary designation and, based on such calculation, to determine whether Poland shall be designated permanently but conditionally for VWP purposes. States that, if permanently but conditionally designated, Poland shall remain a VWP country as long as the annual overstay rate remains below three percent. Requires the Secretary to: (1) suspend VWP designation for one year if the overstay rate exceeds three percent. And (2) terminate VWP designation if the overstay rate exceeds three percent for any two fiscal years, with the possibility of redesignation.
Commission Review Act - Establishes in the legislative branch a National Commission to Review the National Response Since the Terrorist Attacks of September 11, 2001. Directs the Commission to conduct a comprehensive review of the implementation of the recommendations proposed in the report issued by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States and to: (1) assess the progress and challenges in carrying out such recommendations. (2) analyze the trends of domestic terror attacks since the attacks of September 11, 2001, including the growing influence of domestic radicalization and how federal, state, and local agencies can deter and mitigate it. (3) investigate whether there is evidence of any conduct, relationships, or other factors which served to contribute to, facilitate, support, or assist the hijackers who carried out the attacks that was not considered by the 911 Commission. And (4) provide additional recommendations with regard to US homeland security protection, interagency intelligence sharing, and counterterrorism policy.
Pay Stub Disclosure Act This bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to require each employer to provide an initial disclosure to each employee who is not subject to certain exemptions from minimum wage and maximum hour requirements within 15 days after: (1) the employee is hired, or (2) specified information in the initial disclosure changes. The information specified in that initial disclosure shall include: the pay rate and form of compensation. The name of the employer and any other name used by the employer to conduct business. And the physical address and telephone number of the employer's main office or principal place of business, and a mailing address if different from the first one. The bill specifies additional disclosures that must be in each pay stub, including the pay period covered, the employee's name and truncated Social Security number, the total hours worked by the employee, benefits, allowances, and reimbursements. The bill also prescribes the form of the pay stub as well as employer notice requirements. An employer shall keep records of the information disclosed in an employee's pay stub for three years from each stub's issuance. In the event that an employee requests an inspection of his or her records, the employer shall provide copies of them for up to three years before the request. The bill prescribes civil penalties for employer failure to comply with this Act.
Expand School Meals Act of 2009 - Amends the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to expand eligibility for free meals under the school lunch and breakfast programs to children whose family income falls at or below 185 of the federal poverty guidelines.
Title II: The Status of Macau in United States Law - Declares that US laws shall continue to apply to Macau on or after December 20, 1999, unless otherwise expressly provided by law or by Executive order. Authorizes the President, whenever it is determined that Macau is not sufficiently autonomous to justify treatment under a particular US law different from that accorded China, to issue an Executive order suspending the application of US law. Directs the President to consult with Congress in carrying out this title. Title III: Reporting Provisions - Directs the Secretary of State to report to specified congressional committees on conditions in Macau of interest to the United States, including: (1) significant developments in US relations with Macau (including the change in the exercise of sovereignty over it affecting US interests there or the US relations with Macau and China. (2) any significant problems or other developments arising with respect to the application of US export controls to Macau. (3) the suspension with respect to the application of US laws to Macau. (4) the application of treaties and other international agreements to Macau, (5) the development of democratic institutions in Macau. And (6) compliance by China and Portugal with their obligations under the Joint Declaration of the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Portugal on the Question of Macau, dated April 13, 1987.
Lead-Safe Housing for Kids Act of 2016 This bill directs the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to promulgate regulations to update the standards for lead-contaminated dust and lead-contaminated soil, in accordance with health-based standards. The Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 is amended to define elevated blood lead level as the lower of: 5 mgdL , or the most recent definition for elevated blood lead level or reference range level in children ages 1 through 5 set by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The bill also removes 0-bedroom housing from the definition of target housing. The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act is amended to direct HUD to promulgate regulations that: require an initial lead-based paint hazard risk assessment before a family with a child under age six occupies certain housing, unless lead-based paint has already been removed. And state that a visual assessment is not sufficient for these purposes. These regulations shall apply to housing receiving federal assistance that was constructed before 1978, but exclude: single-family housing covered by an application for mortgage insurance from the Federal Housing Administration, or multi-family housing covered by such an application but does not receive any other federal housing assistance. HUD regulations shall also require emergency relocation of such families, without placement on a waitlist, penalty, or lapse in assistance, to another unit of covered housing that has no lead-based paint hazards. The Government Accountability Office shall report to Congress on lead hazards in federally assisted housing.
Biased IRS Audit Systems Prevention Act This bill directs the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to: (1)nbsp, provide anbsp, taxpayer whonbsp. Is selected for an audit sufficient information regarding the reason the taxpayer's return was selected for an audit and to preserve such information for review. (2) document and record how many returns are selected for audit based on randomized selection, scoring under the Discriminant Index Function System, a determination by an IRS examiner, and other methodologies, and (3) repurpose resources for the National Research Program nbsp. To combat tax refund fraud and identity theft. The bill prohibits the IRS from conductingnbsp. Any audit, investigation, or examination of a taxpayer that is primarily for research purposes.
Requires, beginning with FY2010, a two-fiscal-year budget authority for the following accounts of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA): (1) Medical Services, (2) Medical Administration. And (3) Medical Facilities. Requires the Comptroller General to conduct a study on the adequacy and accuracy of VA baseline model projections for health care expenditures.
Fusion Energy Research Authorization Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to implement a Fusion Energy Research Program to demonstrate the technical and economic feasibility of producing safe, environmentally sound, and affordable energy from fusion. Prescribes program goals and elements. Directs the Secretary to contract with the National Academy of Sciences to review various magnetic fusion technologies and alternative fusion concepts with respect to their commercial viability. Instructs the Secretary to: (1) submit a comparisons study to the Congress regarding the siting of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER). (2) seek to reach an agreement with international partners to select a host country for ITER. (3) initiate a process to identify candidate sites for ITER within the United States. And (4) provide within a certain time period a detailed estimate to the Congress of final ITER project costs. Directs the Secretary to submit reports to the Congress on: (1) a parallel design effort on the Tokamak Physics Experiment, (2) the Fusion Energy Research Program. And (3) resource sharing with the Secretary of Defense to enhance the civilian energy applications of the Defense Inertial Confinement Fusion Program. Repeals the five-year fusion energy program established under the Energy Policy Act of 1992. Directs the Secretary to form a new University Radiation Science and Technology Program comprised of: (1) the Nuclear Engineering Research and Education Program, (2) the University Research Reactor Program. And (3) the University Reactor Fuel Assistance Program. Directs the Secretary to establish a fee collection program for certain ITER purposes and the Tokamak Physics Experiment. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) the Alternative Fusion Research Program, (2) the Tokamak Physics Experiment. And (3) the University Radiation Science and Technology Program. Sets limitations upon funding for ITER construction and for magnetic fusion facilities.
Federal Spectrum Incentive Act of 2013 - Amends the National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act to allow federal entities that utilize government station licenses to participate in the incentive auction program under which licensees of electromagnetic spectrum voluntarily relinquish their spectrum rights in order for such spectrum to be auctioned for a repurposed commercial use in exchange for a percentage of the auction proceeds. Permits such federal entities, instead of being reimbursed for the costs of sharing frequencies with nonfederal users or relocating to other frequencies as provided for under current law, to receive a percentage of the proceeds from spectrum it relinquishes for auction by electing to: (1) discontinue operations on eligible frequencies without relocating to other frequencies, or (2) relocate operations to frequencies assigned to another federal entity in order for such entities to share frequencies. Establishes in the US Treasury a Federal Spectrum Incentive Fund to be administered by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in consultation with the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA). Requires 1 of the proceeds from such auctions to be deposited in such Fund and the remainder to be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury for the sole purpose of deficit reduction. Directs OMB to transfer from the Fund to a federal entity a specified amount attributable to the auction of frequencies vacated by such entity. Permits federal entities to use such amounts for: (1) any purposes permitted under the terms and conditions of an appropriations account that was subject to sequestration for any fiscal year under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, provided that the amount used does not exceed the amount by which the account was reduced by sequestration for such fiscal year. Or (2) a transfer of amounts to an incumbent federal entity for such purposes when the federal entity relinquishing spectrum relocates its operations to frequencies assigned to another federal entity in order to share frequencies.
Restricted Weapons Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit the possession or transfer of a restricted weapon, unless such weapon was lawfully possessed before the date it was most recently added to the published list required under this Act. Defines restricted weapon to mean any firearm which is on the list most recently published by the Secretary of the Treasury under this Act. Requires the Secretary to: (1) designate as a restricted weapon any semiautomatic rifle which is manufactured in the United States and is not generally recognized as suitable for, or readily adaptable to, sporting purposes and any firearm manufactured outside the United States the importation of which does not meet the sporting purposes standard. And (2) compile, publish, and periodically revise a list of the firearms so designated. Sets penalties for the unlawful possession or transfer of a restricted weapon. Provides for an enhanced penalty for possession or use of a restricted weapon during a crime of violence or a drug trafficking crime. Requires the Secretary to prescribe regulations governing the transfer of restricted weapons which shall allow such a transfer to proceed within 30 days after the Secretary receives the documentation submitted with respect to such a transfer. Authorizes the Secretary to assess a fee in connection with such a transfer. Sets penalties for violating such regulations. Prohibits: (1) the export of restricted weapons, with exceptions for US departments or agencies and foreign governments. And (2) the manufacture of a firearm to which a silencer or bayonet may be attached without alteration of the firearm. Sets penalties for violations of these provisions. Prohibits the possession or transfer of large capacity ammunition feeding devices, except where lawfully possessed before enactment of this Act. Defines such devices to include: (1) a detachable magazine, belt, or similar device which has, or can be readily converted to have, a capacity of more than seven rounds of ammunition. And (2) any part or combination of parts intended to convert a detachable magazine into such a device. Excludes from such definition any attached tubular device designed to accept and capable of operating with only .22 rimfire caliber ammunition. Sets penalties for violations. Requires the Secretary to promulgate regulations requiring manufacturers of such devices to stamp each such device with a permanent distinguishing mark.
Veterans Information and Benefits Enhancement Act of 2003 - Includes the following among the diseases to be considered service-connected, and therefore compensable through the Department of Veterans Affairs, when suffered by a veteran who is a former prisoner of war who was detained or interned for at least 30 days: (1) cardiovascular (heart) disease, (2) cerebrovascular disease (stroke). Or (3) chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis and primary liver carcinoma. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Secretary) and the Secretary of Defense to jointly conduct a review of the mission, procedures, and administration of the Dose Reconstruction Program of the Department of Defense. Requires appointment of an advisory board for Program review and oversight. Directs the Secretary to conduct a study to determine the appropriate disposition of the Air Force Health Study, an epidemiologic study of Air Force personnel responsible for conducting aerial herbicide spray missions during the Vietnam era. Requires the Secretaries to make specified funds available to the National Academy of Sciences in each of FY 2004 through 2013 for the Academy's Medical Follow-Up Agency of the Institute of Medicine to conduct epidemiological research on military personnel and veterans.
Directs the Federal Trade Commission to investigate the profits of the oil industry and make reasonable profit determinations. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes the Windfall Oil Profits Trust Fund consisting amounts equivalent to the taxes received pursuant to the excise tax established by this Act. Provides for expenditures from the Fund for heating assistance to consumers and small businesses.
Directs the Administrator to transmit to Congress an analysis of the monitoring data needed for development and implementation of total maximum daily loads (TMDLs) which shall address data gaps identified by the Comptroller General in a March 2000 report entitled Water Quality, Key EPA and State Decisions Limited By Inconsistent and Incomplete Data. Requires the Administrator to make arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to study and report on the scientific bases underlying the development of TDMLs. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Administrator, with respect to the economic analysis performed on regulatory changes identified by the Comptroller General in the June 2000 report entitled Clean Water Act: Proposed Revisions to EPA Regulations to Clean Up Polluted Waters, to prepare certain statements and analyses required under the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 with respect to: (1) significant regulatory actions that may result in expenditures by State, local, and tribal governments or the private sector of $100 million or more annually. And (2) selection of a least costly, most cost-effective, or least burdensome alternative. Requires the Administrator to conduct analyses of the effects of the revisions to the regulations pertaining to the NPDES and water quality planning and management on small entities. Directs the Administrator to review the information provided or developed under this Act and consider whether the revisions to such regulations should be changed. Requires an explanation to Congress of the decision to change or not to change such revisions.
Iran Sanctions Enabling Act of 2009 - States that it is the policy of the United States to support the decision of state and local governments and educational institutions to divest from, and to prohibit the investment of assets they control in, persons that the have investments of more than $20 million in Iran's energy sector. Authorizes a state or local government to adopt and enforce measures to divest its assets from, or prohibit their investment in, any person that the state or local government determines, using credible information available to the public, engages in certain investment activities in Iran. Specifies such activities as: (1) the investment of $20 million or more in Iran's energy sector. Or (2) provision of oil or liquefied natural gas tankers, or products used to construct or maintain pipelines used to transport oil or liquefied natural gas, for that energy sector. Authorizes divestment, as well, from any financial institution which extend $20 million or more in credit to another person, for 45 days or more, if that person will use the credit to invest in Iran's energy sector. Expresses the sense of Congress that a state or local government should not adopt such measures against such a person unless it has made every effort to avoid erroneously targeting the person and has verified that such person engages in such investment activities. Declares that any measure of a state or local government authorized under this Act is not preempted by any federal law or regulation. Amends the Investment Company Act of 1940 to shield any registered investment company from civil, criminal, or administrative action based upon its divesting from, or avoiding investing in, securities issued by persons that have invested in Sudan or in Iran. Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to shield from treatment as breaching a fiduciary duty any person divesting employee benefit plan assets from, or avoiding investing plan assets in, persons that have engaged in such investment activities in Iran. Terminates this Act 30 days after the President certifies to Congress that the government of Iran has ceased: (1) providing support for acts of international terrorism and no longer satisfies the requirements for designation as a state-sponsor of terrorism. Or (2) the pursuit, acquisition, and development of nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons and ballistic missiles and ballistic missile launch technology.
Energy Efficient Buildings Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) establish a pilot program to award grants to businesses and organizations for new construction or major renovations of energy efficient buildings that will result in innovative energy efficiency technologies, especially those sponsored by the Department of Energy. And (2) give due consideration to proposals for buildings that are likely to serve low and moderate income populations. Defines energy efficient building as one that after construction or renovation: (1) uses heating, ventilating, and air conditioning systems that perform at no less than Energy Star standards. Or (2) if Energy Star standards are not applicable, uses Federal Energy Management Program recommended heating, ventilating, and air conditioning products.
Prepaid Card Consumer Protection Act of 2010 - Amends the Electronic Fund Transfer Act to extend its coverage to spending card accounts established by a consumer : (1) to which recurring electronic fund transfers may be made, at the consumer's direction, and (2) from which payments may be made, at the consumer's direction, through the use of a card, code, or device. Treats as a spending card account any similar asset account operated or managed by a financial institution, or any other person, whose funds: (1) are pooled with the funds of a person other than the one who established the account, or (2) are held in a name other than that of the person who established the account. Excludes from the meaning of spending card account: (1) any nonreloadable general-use prepaid card in an amount under $250. And (2) any general-use prepaid card solely associated with a certain kind of health plan, a qualified transportation fringe, a health savings account or any other healthcare benefit account, a gift certificate, a store gift card, an electronic promise, plastic card, or payment code, or device, a nonreloadable card labeled as a gift card and marketed solely as such, or a nonreloadable loyalty, rebate, or promotional card. Requires a financial institution to offer electronic fund transfer services in connection with a spending card account only if the account is insured under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and complies with its pass-through deposit insurance requirements. Requires any person that accepts funds in connection with an electronic fund transfer to a spending card account to: (1) transfer them, within 24 hours after accepting them, to an account at an insured depository institution. Or (2) credit the spending card account an amount equal to the amount of such funds. Waives the requirement for providing a consumer with a periodic statement if a financial institution, among other things, provides the consumer with access to the account balance through a readily available telephone line and the Internet and at an electronic terminal or other device that allows the consumer to make a balance inquiry. Prohibits the charging of fees for services required to meet these requirements, other than $1 for an optional periodic statement. Specifies other fees which may and may not be charged in connection with a spending account card.
Hurricane Katrina Employment and Training Assistance Act - Allows national emergency grant funds to states under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (WIA) for addressing the effects of Hurricane Katrina (HK) to be used to provide disaster relief employment on projects that provide assistance in areas outside of the HK-disaster area. Allows such funds to be used to provide disaster relief employment and other WIA assistance, or temporary general public sector employment, to HK-affected individuals, including those who have relocated from states in the disaster area, who were unemployed at the time of the disaster, or who are without employment history, in addition those who meet WIA eligibility requirements. Limits such general public sector employment to not more than six months in addition to such disaster relief employment. Authorizes the Secretary of Labor, however, to extend the duration of employment under this Act and WIA for up to an additional six months due to extraordinary circumstances. Directs the Secretary, in awarding WIA national emergency grants for disaster relief employment, to give priority: (1) first, to states with major disaster areas. And (2) second, to the remaining states that have been most heavily impacted by the demand for services by HK-affected workers. Prohibits an entity that is providing such disaster relief employment from denying such employment because of an HK-affected worker's inability, due to HK's effects, to provide documentation of eligibility. Allows any state, with the Secretary's approval, to use available WIA national emergency grant funds to assist HK-affected workers, including those who have relocated from states in the HK-disaster area. Authorizes the Secretary to award a WIA national emergency grant for employment and training assistance (ETA) for dislocated workers to an eligible entity to provide ETA to HK-affected workers, including workers who have relocated from HK-disaster areas. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) states operating one-stop centers should make them available for use in HK-affected areas and areas where large numbers of HK's victims have been relocated. And (2) one-stop operators should increase access for HK-affected individuals, including through expanded operational hours and on-site services for those in temporary housing locations.
Small Company Capital Formation Act of 2011 - Amends the Securities Act of 1933 (Act) to direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to exempt from its regulation a class of securities for which the aggregate offering amount of all securities sold within the prior 12-month period in reliance upon such exemption does not exceed $50 million. Restricts any such exemption to equity securities, debt securities, and debt securities convertible or exchangeable to equity interests, including any guarantees of such securities. Subjects to civil liability certain violations arising from offering or selling securities by use of prospectuses and communications. Authorizes the SEC to: (1) require an issuer of such exempted class of securities to make periodic disclosures available to investors regarding the issuer, its business operations, financial condition, corporate governance principles, and use of investor funds. (2) require the issuer to file electronically with the SEC and distribute to prospective investors an offering statement which includes this information. (3) provide for the suspension and termination of this disclosure requirement with respect to that issuer. And (4) prescribe exemption disqualification requirements, substantially similar to regulations adopted in accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, under which the exemption shall not be available to the issuer and related persons, including predecessors, affiliates, officers, directors, and underwriters. Requires the SEC to: (1) review and increase biennially such offering amount limitation, as appropriate. And (2) report to certain congressional committees its reasons for not increasing the amount if it determines not to do so. Exempts from state regulation the securities covered and required exempted from SEC regulation by this Act. Directs the Comptroller General to study the impact of state laws regulating securities offerings on offerings made under Regulation A .
Immigrant Labor Policy Review Act - Establishes the High Level Commission on Immigrant Labor Policy. Directs the Commission to study the interactions between Federal immigration policy and the labor markets for aliens in the United States. Terminates the Commission six months after submission of its final report.
Oil Independence, Limiting Subsidies, and Accelerating Vehicle Efficiency (OILSAVE) Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow a tax credit for the purchase of a new qualified fuel-efficient motor vehicle. Defines new qualified fuel-efficient motor vehicle as a passenger automobile with a fuel economy rating of not less than 34.5 miles per gallon or a light truck with a 27.5 miles per gallon rating which are manufactured for model years 2007-2011. Denies major integrated oil companies the option to expense intangible drilling and development costs.
National Urban Search and Rescue Response System Act of 2007 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to direct the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to: (1) continue to administer the National Urban Search and Rescue Response System. (2) provide for a national network of standardized search and rescue resources. (3) designate task forces to participate in the System and determine criteria for participation. And (4) enter into an agreement with the required sponsoring agency of each task force regarding participation. Sets forth provisions regarding the composition of task forces and reimbursement. Authorizes the Administrator to appoint a System member for a period of federal service to participate in sponsored or sanctioned exercises, pre-incident staging, major disaster and emergency response activities, and training events. Entitles a member who suffers personal injury, illness, disability, or death while acting in the scope of such appointment to be treated as an employee who sustained the injury in the performance of duty. Sets forth provisions regarding election of benefits, liability, employment and re-employment rights, and licenses and permits. Directs the Administrator to: (1) establish and maintain an advisory committee. And (2) enter into an annual preparedness cooperative agreement with each agency. And (3) enter into response cooperative agreements under which the Administrator agrees to reimburse agencies for emegency response costs.
Beneficiary Access to Care Act of 2003 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act with respect to the prospective payment system for hospital outpatient department services (OPD) to: (1) require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to treat as a separate group of covered OPD services any drug or biological that was treated as such a group as of December 31, 2002, and any drug or biological that has ceased to be eligible for transitional, pass-through payments by reason of the limited period of payment specified. And (2) add special rules for 2004 for the calculation of Medicare OPD fee schedule amounts, among other payment-related changes. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on pharmacy services used to provide cancer drug therapies in hospital outpatient setting.
Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Act of 2006 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish the Methamphetamine Awareness and Prevention Office within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Requires the Director of the Office to establish a program to award competitive matching grants to states, local governments, and private nonprofit organizations for the establishment and implementation of methamphetamine education and awareness campaigns to reduce the spread of methamphetamine use. Limits a recipient to one grant each fiscal year. Requires recipients to report to the Director on the impact of the campaign carried out under the grant.
Economic Recovery Through Responsible Homeownership Act of 2009 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow an individual taxpayer a refundable tax credit for the purchase in 2009 or 2010 of a residence located in the United States if the construction of such residence began before 2009. Allows a credit of either $2,000, $5,000, or $10,000 for downpayments of 5, 10, or 15 of the residence's purchase price respectively.
Older and Disabled Americans Criminal Protection Act of 1998 - Defines a shared housing arrangement as a residential arrangement under which one person provides care or other services for the owner or lessee of a dwelling unit in exchange for free occupancy or a reduced cost for occupancy of that unit or other remuneration. Authorizes: (1) a shared housing referral agency to request the Attorney General to conduct and share criminal background checks respecting shared housing caretaker applicants. And (2) the Attorney General to charge a fee for such service. Provides a criminal penalty for the knowing use of such information for other than housing determinations. States that an agency that reasonably relies upon such information shall not be liable for damages based on such information's inaccuracy.
Airport Security Act of 2010 - Directs the Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security to establish a program to prohibit all but specified authorized individuals from possessing a firearm at a covered airport, including any individual who enters the airport, or exits public transportation at it, for air travel, meeting another individual, picking up cargo, or employment. Directs the Assistant Secretary to require airport operators to: (1) display conspicuous notices summarizing the program at each airport entrance. And (2) require law enforcement personnel to monitor the airport to prevent violations and escort air travelers who are authorized to carry a firearm. Prescribes criminal penalties for nonauthorized individuals who knowingly possess a firearm at a covered airport.
America's Cup Act of 2011 - Authorizes vessels operating in preparation for, or in connection with, the 34th America's Cup competition, that have been certified by the Administrator of the Maritime Administration to be eligible vessels, to position competing vessels and transport individuals, equipment, and supplies utilized for the staging, operations, or broadcast of the competition from and around US ports. Deems such an eligibility certification to be conclusive evidence to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) of the qualification of a vessel to participate in the competition. Subjects any vessel participating in the 34th America's Cup as a competing or supporting vessel that has not received an eligibility certification or that is not in compliance with provisions regarding coastwise endorsement to specified penalties. Directs the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating to issue a certificate of documentation with a coastwise endorsement limited to the carriage of natural gas for the LNG GEMINI, the LNG LEO, and the LNG VIRGO. Terminates such endorsement if such a vessel's owner on the date of enactment of this Act sells it to a person who is not related by ownership or control. Declares that a vessel transported in Dry Dock 2 is not merchandise for purposes of requirements applicable to transporting merchandise between points in the United States to which the coastwise laws apply if, during such transportation, Dry Dock 2 remains connected by a utility or other connecting line to pier side moorage located in Ketchikan, Alaska.
Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate specified segments of the Taunton River in Massachusetts as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Requires the river segments to be managed in accordance with the Taunton River Stewardship Plan, dated July 2005, including any amendment to such Plan, that the Secretary of the Interior determines to be consistent with this Act. Authorizes the Secretary, in order to provide for the protection, preservation, and enhancement of each river segment, to enter into cooperative agreements, which may include provisions for financial and other assistance, with: (1) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, (2) the Taunton River Stewardship Council. And (3) any appropriate nonprofit, as determined by the Secretary. Bars the river segments from being: (1) administered as a unit of the National Park System. Or (2) subject to the laws that govern the administration of such System. Considers the zoning ordinances adopted by specified towns and cities, including any provision of the zoning ordinances related to the conservation of floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses associated with any river segment designated by this Act, to satisfy each standard and requirement under the Act regarding the prohibition on the federal acquisition of certain lands by condemnation for inclusion in any national, wild, scenic, or recreational river area. Authorizes the Secretary, respecting each river segment, to only acquire parcels of land by donation or with the owner's consent. Prohibits the acquisition of any parcel by condemnation. Requires the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and private industry, to complete a report regarding the energy resources available on the lands and waters included in the segments of the Taunton River designated by this Act. Prohibits anything in this Act from: (1) being construed as affecting the authority or responsibility of Massachusetts to manage or regulate fish and resident wildlife, including the authority to regulate hunting, fishing, trapping, and recreational shooting. (2) being construed as limiting access for hunting, fishing, trapping, or recreational shooting, or (3) impacting the supply of domestically-produced energy resources.
Requires: (1) grant applications to include at least a statement of objectives, and a description of the programs and activities, for which the grant is sought. And (2) grant applicants to agree to make available non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 50 percent of the Federal funds provided under the grant. Directs the Secretary to allocate the amounts appropriated to carry out this Act equitably and in a manner that best achieves the purposes of this Act. Allows a grant to be used only to: (1) train volunteers to assist individuals residing on Indian lands to complete and return census questionnaires. (2) educate Native Americans and the public about the importance of participating in the 2000 census and the confidentiality that is accorded to information collected. (3) recruit candidates to apply for census office and field enumerator positions, (4) sponsor community events to promote the 2000 census, (5) produce community-tailored promotional materials. Or (6) rent space to provide any such training. Title II: Recruitment of Temporary Employees - Prohibits the earning or receipt of compensation for service performed by an individual in a temporary census position from having the effect of causing: (1) such individual or any other individual to become ineligible for any benefits provided under any Federal program or any State, tribal, or local program financed with Federal funds. Or (2) a reduction in the amount of any such benefits for which such individual or any other individual would otherwise be eligible. Makes such requirement applicable only with respect to compensation for service performed during calendar year 2000. Prohibits the application of such requirement if the individual performing the service involved was first appointed to such position before January 1, 2000. Modifies Federal law regarding exemptions from certain provisions relating to offsets from pay and other benefits for reemployed annuitants and former uniformed service members to make such law: (1) applicable to service in any temporary position within the Bureau established for purposes relating to the 2000 decennial census. And (2) inapplicable to any service performed after December 31, 2000. Allows the Secretary to provide such reasonable and appropriate incentives to facilitate and encourage volunteers to assist in the enumeration of Native Americans and reimburse them for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by assistants in conducting the Census. Directs the Secretary to develop and implement a program of undergraduate or graduate debt relief for those Census assistants that have provided significant service.
American Eagle Palladium Bullion Coin Act of 2010 - Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue a $25 palladium bullion investment coin bearing designs that are close likenesses of the work of American coin designer and medallic artist Adolph Alexander Weinman. Requires the obverse to bear a high-relief likeness of the Winged Liberty design used on the obverse of the Mercury dime, and the reverse a high-relief version of the reverse design of the 1907 American Institute of Architects medal. Requires the coin also to bear other inscriptions, including Liberty, In God We Trust, and United States of America. Allows any US Mint other than the one at West Point, New York, to strike the coins, unless the Secretary of the Treasury decides to issue a proof version, which shall be struck only at West Point. Conditions the minting and issuance of palladium bullion coins upon submission to the Secretary and Congress of a marketing study by a reputable, independent third party: (1) analyzing the market for palladium bullion investments. And (2) demonstrating that there would be adequate demand for such coins to ensure that they could be minted and issued at no net cost to taxpayers.
International Development Act of 1994 - Amends the Bretton Woods Agreements Act to authorize the US Governor of the World Bank to contribute a specified amount to the Global Environment Facility. Amends the African Development Fund Act to authorize the US Governor of the African Development Fund to contribute a specified amount to the seventh replenishment of the Fund. Amends the Inter-American Development Bank Act to authorize the US Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank, upon adoption of resolutions, to subscribe to an increase in the authorized capital stock of the Bank and contribute a specified amount to the Fund for Special Operations. Authorizes the US Governor of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to contribute to the Interest Subsidy Account of the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the IMF. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the International Financial Institutions Act to direct the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the US Executive Directors of certain international financial institutions to take into account, when considering whether to support or oppose loan proposals, the extent to which the recipient government has demonstrated a commitment to achieving the following: (1) providing accurate and complete data on the annual expenditures and receipts of the armed forces, (2) ending excessive military involvement in the economy, (3) making substantial reductions in excessive military spending and forces. And (4) ending corruption involving members of the armed forces. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees on the Government of Indonesia's performance in achieving such goals. Directs the Secretary to instruct the US Executive Directors to bring about policies to promote respect for, and rights of, indigenous peoples. Requires the Secretary to instruct the US Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank to support an increased focus on the poorest countries in Latin America and the Caribbean and to support programs of the Multilateral Investment Fund. Requires the Secretary to direct the US Executive Directors to urge their respective institutions to adopt policies to encourage borrowing countries to guarantee internationally recognized worker rights.
Child Nicotine Poisoning Prevention Act of 2015 This bill requires any nicotine provided in a liquid nicotine container sold, offered for sale, manufactured for sale, distributed in commerce, or imported into the United States to be packaged in accordance with the Consumer Product Safety Commission's (CPSC's) standards and testing procedures for special packaging that is difficult for children under five years of age to open or to obtain harmful contents from. The requirement must be treated as a standard for the special packaging of a household substance under the Poison Prevention Packaging Act of 1970. quot, Liquid nicotine containerquot. Is defined to: (1) include a package from which nicotine in a solution or other form is accessible through normal and foreseeable use by a consumer and that is used to hold soluble nicotine in any concentration. And (2) exclude a sealed, pre-filled, and disposable container of nicotine in a solution or other form in which such container is inserted directly into an electronic cigarette, electronic nicotine delivery system, or other similar product, if the nicotine in the container is inaccessible through customary or reasonably foreseeable handling or use, including reasonably foreseeable ingestion or other contact by children. The bill applies to any form of chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex, regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) must consult with the CPSC if HHS maintains, enforces, imposes, or continues in effect any packaging requirement for liquid nicotine containers, including a child-resistant packaging requirement.
Teenage Pregnancy Reduction Act of 1996 - Mandates evaluation of a wide variety of promising programs to prevent teenage pregnancy, including programs that do not receive Federal grants. Mandates scientific peer review of evaluation proposals. Authorizes appropriations. Mandates establishment of the National Clearinghouse on Teenage Pregnancy Prevention Programs. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes an operating grant to a program found to be effective. Authorizes appropriations.
Skill Game Protection Act - Amends federal criminal law to exempt from the prohibition against transmission of wagering information the operation or participation in poker, chess, bridge, mahjong or any other game where success is predominantly determined by a player's skill, to the extent that: (1) the game provides for competition only between and among participants, and not against the person operating the game. And (2) the operator is in compliance with federal regulations governing games of skill. Amends federal law governing monetary transactions to instruct the Secretary of the Treasury to prescribe regulations requiring each person who operates a game of skill on the Internet to maintain specified safeguards, including: (1) that the individual participant depositing funds is 18 years of age or older. (2) that the individual participant is physically located in a jurisdiction that does not bar participation in the particular Internet games of skill in which the individual participates. And (3) that all taxes relating to Internet games of skill due to federal and state governments and to Indian tribes from individual participants are collected at the time of any payment of any proceeds of Internet games of skill.
District of Columbia Government Improvement and Efficiency Act of 1996 - Reduces the minimum number of members of the Board of Trustees of the American University from 40 to 25. Repeals the application of the Service Contract Act of 1965 with respect to the District of Columbia. Authorizes the Mayor of the District and the Director of the Bureau of Prisons, with respect to District of Columbia convicts in any Federal penitentiary during the five-year period beginning in FY 1997, to enter into an agreement waiving requirements relating to the cost of the care and custody of D. C. convicts in Federal penitentiaries or establishing an alternative amount to be charged against the District for such convicts so long as the Director provides at least 15 days' notice of the intent to enter into the agreement to specified congressional committees. Amends the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act to exempt from review by the D. C. Council contracts: (1) entered into by the Washington Convention Center Authority for preconstruction activities, project management, design, or construction. (2) entered into by the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority, other than contracts for the sale or lease of the Blue Plains Wastewater Treatment Plant. And (3) for Federal highway improvement projects at the option of the Council. Amends the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 to allow, at the request of the Inspector General, the Director of Personnel to waive the residency requirement for employees of the Office of the Inspector General. Requires members of the Judicial Nomination Commission to serve without compensation for services rendered in connection with their official duties on the Commission. Renames the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act as the District of Columbia Home Rule Act.
Keep Americans Working Act - Declares that the purpose of this Act is to keep Americans working by strengthening and expanding short-time compensation programs that provide employers with an alternative to layoffs. Requires the Secretary of Labor to: (1) provide guidance to states in enacting short-term compensation programs. And (2) award start-up grants to state agencies in states that have enacted programs and meet certain requirements. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to define short-time compensation program as one in which: (1) participation of an employer is voluntary. (2) an employer reduces the number of hours worked by employees through certifying that such reductions are in lieu of temporary layoffs. (3) an employee whose workweek that has been reduced by at least 10 is eligible for unemployment compensation. (4) an eligible employee may participate in an employer-sponsored job skills training program. And (5) an employer is required to certify that continuation of employee health and retirement benefits will not be affected by participation in the program. Directs the Secretary to make payments to a state's unemployment compensation trust fund for the payment of unemployment compensation if the Secretary approves a state's application for certification to operate a short-time compensation program that requires the maintenance of health and retirement employee benefits.
EINSTEIN Act of 2015 Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to deploy, operate, and maintain capabilities to protect federal agency information and federal civilian information systems, including technologies to continuously diagnose, detect, prevent, and mitigate against cybersecurity risks involving such information or systems. Authorizes the DHS Secretary to access, and allows federal agency heads to disclose to the Secretary, information traveling to or from or stored on such systems, regardless of from where the Secretary accesses such information, notwithstanding any law that would otherwise restrict or prevent such disclosures. Authorizes the Secretary to retain, use, and disclose information obtained through such activities only to protect federal agency information and federal civilian information systems from cybersecurity risks or in furtherance of the national cybersecurity and communications integration center's (NCCIC's) authority, or, with DOJ approval and if disclosure of such information is not otherwise prohibited by law, to law enforcement only to investigate, prosecute, disrupt, or otherwise respond to: criminal computer fraud, an imminent threat of death or serious bodily harm. A serious threat to a minor, including sexual exploitation or threats to physical safety. Or an attempt or conspiracy to commit any of such offenses. Provides liability protections to private entities authorized to assist the Secretary for such purposes. Redefines for purposes of the NCCIC's cybersecurity functions: (1) quot, cybersecurity riskquot. To exclude actions that solely involve a violation of a consumer term of service or a consumer licensing agreement, and (2) quot, incidentquot. To include an occurrence that actually or imminently jeopardizes, without lawful authority, an information system, thereby replacing a standard that includes occurrences that constitute a violation or imminent threat of violation of law, security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.
Military Readiness Enhancement Act of 2010 - Repeals current Department of Defense (DOD) policy concerning homosexuality in the Armed Forces. Prohibits the Secretary of Defense (Secretary), and the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, from discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation against any member of the Armed Forces or any person seeking to become a member. Authorizes the re-accession into the Armed Forces of otherwise qualified individuals previously separated on the basis of sexual orientation. Directs the Secretary to establish in DOD the Pentagon Working Group to report recommendations regarding the implementation of this Act. Requires such report to be submitted to the congressional defense committees. Requires the Secretary to: (1) revise DOD regulations and issue new regulations as necessary to implement this Act. And (2) direct each military department Secretary to do the same. Directs the Secretary to report on the compliance of institutions of higher education with federal law concerning the denial of access by such institutions to Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) military recruiting on campus, as well as a description of actions taken to effect the denial of certain federal funding to institutions that continue to prevent ROTC access.
Human Tissue for Transplantation Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to provide for the regulation of human tissue banks and tissue banking practices. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a Tissue Advisory Committee for advice on standards and regulations. Provides for the use of tissue bank permit fees to cover costs of implementing this Act. Prohibits the Secretary from enforcing existing regulations that treat human heart valves as medical devices subject to premarket approval. Rescinds the determination by the Secretary that human heart valves must undergo premarket approval.
Theodore Roosevelt Wildlife Legacy Act of 1997 - Declares the mission of the National Wildlife Refuge System to be to preserve a network of lands and waters for the conservation and management of US fish, wildlife, and plants for present and future generations. Establishes as the System's priority public uses: (1) wildlife observation and photography, (2) hunting, (3) fishing. And (4) environmental education and interpretation. Directs the Secretary of the Interior, in administering the System, to: (1) resolve any conflict between the primary purpose of a National Wildlife Refuge and any purpose of the System in a manner that first fulfills the primary purpose of the refuge. (2) plan, propose, and direct System expansion to accomplish the mission and purposes of the System and of each refuge and to contribute to the conservation of US ecosystems. And (3) inventory and monitor the status and trends of fish, wildlife, and plants in each refuge. Prohibits the Secretary, effective three years after enactment of this Act, from initiating or permitting a new use of a refuge or an expansion of an existing allowed use unless such use is compatible with the primary purposes of the refuge and the mission and purposes of the System. Directs the Secretary to: (1) propose within 15 years and revise every 15 years comprehensive conservation plans for each refuge in the System, except refuges in Alaska. (2) develop and implement a process to ensure an opportunity for active public involvement in the preparation and revision of such plans. (3) manage each refuge in a manner consistent with its conservation plan. And (4) prepare a conservation plan for a refuge established after enactment of this Act not later than two years after the Secretary determines that sufficient land has been acquired to warrant comprehensive planning.
Removal of Terrorist Criminal Aliens Act of 2003 - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to establish procedures for the expedited removal of a terrorist criminal alien, and authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to issue a final order of removal under such provisions. Limits judicial review respecting such an order, action, or decision. Makes such an alien ineligible for certain discretionary relief from removal. Revises provisions respecting countries to which an alien may be removed. Includes among the classes of deportable aliens a non-permanent resident alien who poses a danger or national security threat to the United States.
Alternative Minimum Tax Repeal Act of 1995 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to repeal the alternative minimum tax.
Oregon Coastal Land Conveyance Act - Holds in trust for the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua, and Siuslaw Indians all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to approximately 14,804 acres of federal land generally depicted on the map entitled quot, Oregon Coastal Land Conveyance,quot. Dated March 27, 2013. Makes that land part of the Tribes' reservation. Applies federal law relating to the export of unprocessed logs harvested from federal land to any unprocessed logs that are harvested from the federal land conveyed to the Tribes. Prohibits gaming on those lands. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey to the Oregon and California Railroad public domain land that is located within a specified planning area and is approximately equal in acreage and condition to Railroad land that this Act conveys to the Tribes.
Department of Veterans Affairs Information Security Protection Act - Requires the Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Information and Technology to submit to the congressional veterans committees quarterly reports on Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) compliance with federally-required information security improvements. Directs the Assistant Secretary to submit to such committees: (1) quarterly, a plan of action to address critical known VA information security vulnerabilities. And (2) annually, a plan for identifying and replacing VA operating systems that are out-of-date or unsupported. Requires the Assistant Secretary to ensure that any software or Internet applications used on VA operating systems are secure from vulnerabilities that could affect the confidentiality of sensitive personal information on veterans. Directs the Secretary to report, quarterly, to such committees on any incidents of failure to comply with established information security policies, any actions taken in response to such incidents, and certain related information. Requires the Secretary to submit a strategic plan for improving VA information security and to update such plan at least every two years. Requires VA contractors with access to sensitive personal information to provide protective measures to safeguard from possible information security threats any information provided by the VA that will be resident on, or transiting through, information systems controlled by that contractor.
Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2004 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit a person from using any telephone facsimile (fax) machine, computer, or other device to send, to another fax machine, an unsolicited advertisement to a person who has requested that such sender not send such advertisements, or to any other person unless: (1) the sender has an established business relationship with the person. And (2) the advertisement contains a conspicuous notice on its first page that the recipient may request not to be sent any further unsolicited advertisements, and includes a domestic telephone and fax number for sending such a request. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide by rule that a request not to send unsolicited advertisements complies with legal requirements if: (1) the request identifies the recipient fax number to which the request relates. (2) the request is made to the telephone or fax number of the sender. And (3) the person making the request has not subsequently provided express invitation or permission to have such advertisements sent. Authorizes the FCC to allow professional tax-exempt trade associations to send unsolicited advertisements to their members in furtherance of association purposes. Requires the: (1) FCC to report annually to Congress on the enforcement of the above requirements. And (2) Comptroller General to study, and report to specified congressional committees on, complaints received by the FCC concerning unsolicited advertisements sent to fax machines.
Health Care Fraud Prosecution Act of 1993 - Amends the Federal criminal code to set penalties for: (1) knowingly executing a scheme or artifice to defraud to obtain a health care payment. Or (2) presenting a statement as part of, or in support of, a claim for health care payment, knowing that such statement contains false or misleading information concerning any material fact. Limits such penalties to a fine and ten years' imprisonment, unless the offender knowingly or recklessly caused: (1) serious bodily injury to, or endangered the life of, an individual. Or (2) caused the death of an individual . Sets forth provisions regarding illegal remunerations. Permits: (1) persons injured by violations of such provisions to recover treble damages in a civil action. And (2) the court to award the prevailing party a reasonable attorney fee. Makes provisions regarding injunctions against fraud and criminal forfeiture of fraud proceeds applicable to health care fraud. Authorizes the Attorney General to pay specified rewards for information leading to the prosecution and conviction of persons engaging in health care fraud, with exceptions. Directs the Attorney General to establish: (1) regional health care fraud task forces and a data base for the reporting of final adverse actions against health care providers, suppliers, or practitioners. And (2) a national, toll-free health care fraud and abuse hotline. Authorizes appropriations: (1) for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, US Attorneys, and the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services to hire, equip, and train personnel in connection with the investigation and prosecution of health care fraud cases. And (2) to establish, operate, and administer health care task forces and the national health care fraud and abuse data base and hotline, and to publicize the data base and hotline. Amends the Federal criminal code to make: (1) activity which, if engaged in by the US Postal Service, would be a violation of mail fraud provisions, punishable to the same extent with respect to private or commercial interstate carriers. And (2) health care fraud and express company fraud predicates to violations of prohibitions against the laundering of monetary instruments.
Helping to Encourage Real Opportunities (HERO) for At-Risk Youth Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code, with respect to the work opportunity tax credit, to: change the credit for summer youth employees to a credit for youth employees who will be employed for not more than 20 hours per week during any period between September 16 and April 30 in which the individual is regularly attending any secondary school, increase the amount of the credit for youth employees, and expand the credit to include at-risk youth. An quot, at-risk youthquot. Is any individual who is certified by the designated local agency as: having attained age 16 but not age 25 on the hiring date, having not regularly attended specified schools or been employed during the six-month period preceding the hiring date, and not readily employable by reason of lacking a sufficient number of basic skills. The term also includes individuals who have been certified as having attained the age of 16 but not age 21 on the hiring date and as an eligible foster child who was in foster care during the 12-month period ending on the hiring date. The bill also extends until December 31, 2019, the designation period for certain tax-favored empowerment zones.
Emergency Port of Entry Personnel and Infrastructure Funding Act of 2007 - Directs the US Customs and Border Protection for FY2009-FY2012 to hire, train, and assign additional customs and border protection personnel for the Northern and Southern US borders. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security (Secretary) to ensure such personnel are equipped with secure two-way communication devices and that existing personnel and new hires receive law enforcement training. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) construct additional ports of entry along the Northern and Southern US borders. And (2) determine the location for new US ports of entry. Requires expansion of the vehicle, cargo, and pedestrian inspection lanes at Eagle Pass, Texas, and Laredo, Texas. Exempts the provisions of this Act from: (1) the Administrative Procedures Act and the Paperwork Reduction Act. And (2) federal competitive contracting and hiring requirements. Authorizes appropriations, including for continued implementation of: (1) the Secure Border Initiative, the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, and the US-VISIT program, and (2) the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism.
Environmental Improvement Timber Contract Extension Act of 1996 - Amends the Tongass Timber Reform Act to extend and modify the timber contract between the United States and the Ketchikan Pulp Company with regard to the Tongass National Forest, Alaska.
Selected Reserve Home Loan Equity Act - Makes permanent the authority for individuals who complete six years of service in the Selected Reserve to receive home loans guaranteed, insured, or made through the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prescribes uniform fees for members of the Selected Reserve and veterans eligible for such home loans through qualifying active duty service.
Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness Act of 1997 - Designates certain lands in Rocky Mountain National Park, Colorado, as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System which, together with specified lands within the Indian Peaks Wilderness, shall be known as the Rocky Mountain National Park Wilderness. Reserves water rights in such area sufficient for purposes of the wilderness designation. Provides that this Act shall not be construed to prevent or impede activities under the surface of lands designated as wilderness by this Act to operate, maintain, repair, or replace the Alva B. Adams Tunnel of the Colorado-Big Thompson Project. Repeals provisions authorizing the Bureau of Reclamation to enter and utilize for flowage or other purposes areas within the Park which may be necessary for the development and maintenance of a Government reclamation project.
National Cheese Exchange Oversight and Improvement Act of 1997 - Amends the Commodity Exchange Act to direct the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to regulate a concentrated cash market , including the National Cheese Exchange in Green Bay, Wisconsin, until the Commission determines that the market is not functioning as a reference price for off-market transactions of the commodity being traded on such market.
National Youth Summer Jobs Act of 2011 - Directs the Secretary of Labor to award 5-year competitive grants to eligible local government units to provide summer employment, including job readiness activities, work experiences, and job placement, for out-of-school youths age 14 to 21 who are enrolled in a public or private secondary school or have received a secondary school diploma or its equivalent but are basic-skills deficient, unemployed, or underemployed. Allows eligible entities that operate existing youth summer jobs programs to use grants to expand their programs, in lieu of establishing new job placement programs, by providing job training and support services, including health and nutrition referral, housing referral, financial literacy, and instruction on basic daily living skills.
National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare Act of 1997 - Establishes the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare to: (1) review and analyze the long-term financial condition of the Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act. (2) identify problems that threaten the financial integrity of the Medicare trust funds and make appropriate recommendations to restore such integrity through 2030. (3) analyze potential solutions to the problems identified that will ensure both the financial integrity of Medicare and the provision of appropriate benefits. And (4) make recommendations for establishing the appropriate financial structure of the Medicare program and for establishing the appropriate balance of benefits covered and beneficiary contributions to the Medicare program. Requires a report to the President and the Congress. Authorizes appropriations.
Children's Express Lane to Health Coverage Act of 2003 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) and XXI (SCHIP) of the Social Security Act to give States the option of providing that Medicaid or SCHIP financial eligibility requirements are met for children based on their eligibility for nutrition assistance or similar public programs with comparable income standards and methodologies.
Deter Revolving-door Appointments in our Nation. Stop Washington Appointees from becoming Manipulative Petitioners Act or the DRAIN the SWAMP Act This bill amends the federal criminal code to revise post-employment lobbying restrictions on senior executive branch officials and employees. Specifically, it imposes a five-year ban on communications by a former political appointee with the intent to influence officers or employees at their former executive branch agency or department. The term political appointee includes certain senior political officials compensated on the Executive Schedule. Limited term, limited emergency, and noncareer appointees in the Senior Executive Service. And employees in confidential or policy-determining positions in the excepted service. Additionally, the bill amends the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 to impose a lifetime ban on lobbying by a former political appointee on behalf of a foreign government or foreign political party.
Health Care Safety Net Act of 2008 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize appropriations for FY2008-FY2012 for health centers to meet the health care needs of medically underserved populations. Requires the Comptroller General to study the economic costs and benefits of school-based health centers and their impact on the health of students, including an analysis of: (1) the impact that federal funding could have on the operation of such centers. (2) any cost savings to other federal programs derived from providing health services in such centers. And (3) the impact of such centers in rural or underserved areas. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), to submit a report to the relevant congressional committees that describes efforts to expand and accelerate quality improvement activities in community health centers. Requires the Administrator to establish a mechanism for the dissemination of initiatives, best practices, and other information that may assist health care quality improvement efforts in community health centers. Directs the Comptroller General to study integrated health system models for the delivery of health care services to medically underserved populations. Reauthorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2012 for: (1) the National Health Service Corps program. And (2) the National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program and National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program. Repeals provisions requiring each center or clinic designated as having a health manpower shortage to demonstrate every six years that it meets the applicable requirements of the definition of a health professional shortage area. Revises requirements for assigning members of the Corps to a health professional shortage area to require that the Secretary determine that an entity demonstrates willingness to support or facilitate mentorship, professional development, and training opportunities for Corps members. Requires the Secretary to assist Corps members in establishing and maintaining professional relationships and developmental opportunities. Reauthorizes appropriations for FY2008-FY2012 for grants for expanded delivery of health care services in rural areas, for the planning and implementation of integrated health care networks in rural areas, and for the planning and implementation of small health care provider quality improvement activities.
Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2015 This bill directs the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to modernize and implement the integrated public alert and warning system of the United States to ensure that the President is able, under all conditions, to alert governmental authorities and the civilian population in areas endangered by disasters, including by: establishing common alerting and warning protocols, standards, terminology, and operating procedures for such system. Including in such system the capability to adapt the distribution and content of communications on the basis of geographic location, risks, or personal user preferences and to alert individuals with disabilities and individuals with access and functional needs. Ensuring that training, tests, and exercises are conducted for such system. Establishing and integrating into the National Incident Management System a comprehensive and periodic training program to instruct and educate federal, state, tribal, and local government officials in the use of the Common Alerting Protocol enabled Emergency Alert System. And ensuring that the system is resilient, secure, and can withstand acts of terrorism and other external attacks. The system shall: incorporate multiple communications technologies, be designed to incorporate future technologies for communicating directly with the public to provide alerts to the largest portion of the affected population feasible and to improve the ability of remote areas to receive alerts, promote local and regional partnerships to enhance community preparedness and response, provide redundant alert mechanisms, and protect individual privacy. FEMA must: (1) submit a detailed plan to implement the system, including a time line, a spending plan, and recommendations for any additional authority necessary. And (2) establish the Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Advisory Committee to develop recommendations for the system.
Natural Gas Reserve Act of 2001 - Amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to authorize the Secretary of Energy to establish and operate a Natural Gas Reserve (NGR), which shall not be deemed to be a component of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Sets forth implementation authority for natural gas release and sales predicated upon a finding that a natural gas supply shortage exists. Restricts such sales to entities customarily engaged in natural gas sale and distribution. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a Natural Gas Reserve Account to serve as depository for receipts from disposition of NGR natural gas. Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to obligate amounts in such Account without the need for further appropriation. Retains the availability of such funds for obligation without fiscal year limitation.
Strategic Gasoline and Fuel Reserve Act of 2005 - Amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to direct the Secretary of Energy to establish, maintain, and operate a Strategic Gasoline and Fuel Reserve of gasoline and jet fuel. Instructs the Secretary to determine between three and five regionally strategic Reserve sites throughout the United States. Permits the Secretary to release gasoline or fuel from the Reserve only if: (1) the President finds that there is a severe fuel supply disruption. Or (2) the Governor of a state requests a release from the Reserve, accompanied by specified findings. Establishes in the Treasury a revolving Strategic Gasoline and Fuel Reserve Fund.
Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe Fish Springs Ranch Settlement Act - Ratifies the Fish Springs Ranch Water Rights Settlement Agreement dated May 20, 2007. Sets forth provisions governing the waiver and retention of claims by the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe of Indians and the Secretary of the Interior.
Judicial Amendments Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal judicial code to make moneys in the Judiciary Automation Fund available to the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts for: (1) the procurement of automatic data processing equipment (equipment) for program activities included in the courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services account of the judicial branch. And (2) support personnel in the courts and in the Administrative Office. Authorizes all agencies of the judiciary to make deposits into the Fund. Requires the Director to develop and annually revise a long range plan for meeting the equipment needs of the activities funded, including an annual estimate of certain fees that may be collected under the Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1991. Provides for the deposit into the Fund of such fees. Requires the Director's annual report to the Congress on the operation of the Fund to include: (1) the specific actions taken and progress made to improve the plan developed, the long range automation plan, and the strategic business plan. And (2) a comparison of planned and actual Fund expenditures and accomplishments and reasons for any delays in scheduled systems development or budget overruns. Authorizes the Director to transfer amounts up to $1 million from the Fund into the account to which the Funds were originally appropriated, with amounts in excess of that sum in any fiscal year permitted to be transferred only by following specified reprogramming procedures. Requires the Director to: (1) develop an overall strategic business plan which would identify the judiciary's missions, goals, and objectives, and a long range automation plan based on the strategic business plan and user needs assessments, (2) establish effective Administrative Office oversight of court automation efforts. (3) expedited efforts to complete the development and implementation of life cycle management standards. (4) utilize the standards in developing the next generation of case management and financial systems. And (5) assess the current utilization and future user requirements of the data communications network. Amends: (1) the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act to authorize appropriations for court arbitration. And (2) the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 to extend civil justice expense and delay reduction pilot programs.
Environmental Finance Act of 1995 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish: (1) an Environmental Financial Advisory Board to provide expert advice on issues affecting the costs and financing of environmental activities at the Federal, State, and local levels. And (2) Environmental Finance Centers in institutions of higher education in each of the regions of the EPA. Authorizes the Centers to: (1) provide training of State and local officials, (2) publish materials relating to financing of environmental infrastructure. (3) conduct conferences and advisory panels on specific environmental finance issues, (4) establish information services, (5) generate case studies and reports. (6) develop surveys of financial issues and needs of State and local governments. (7) identify financial programs and alternative financing mechanisms for training purposes, (8) hold public meetings. And (9) collaborate and exchange information. Permits the Administrator to make grants to institutions of higher education to carry out the Center program. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Science and Technology, to designate one or more university-based centers for homeland security. Includes diagnostic medical services and information engineering as criteria for such designation. Authorizes the Secretary to except certain criteria and to consider additional criteria with respect to such designation in order to further homeland security interests. Repeals provisions of the Act which amend the Public Health Service Act to revise definitions of vaccine, vaccine manufacturer, and vaccine-related injury or death. Expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that the Committee on Energy and Commerce should report a bill addressing: (1) revitalizing immunization efforts by ensuring an adequate supply of vaccines and encouraging the development of new vaccines. And (2) ensuring that patients who have suffered vaccine-related injuries have an opportunity for fair redress and that vaccine manufacturers, physicians, and other administrators have adequate protections. Removes the authority of the Secretary to waive a prohibition on contracts with corporate expatriates when the Secretary determines that the waiver will prevent either the loss of jobs in the United States or costs that the Government otherwise would not occur.
Air Travelers Fair Treatment Act of 2001 - Amends Federal transportation law to make it an unfair or deceptive practice for an air carrier or foreign air carrier to fail to provide a passenger with an accurate explanation of the reasons for a flight delay, cancellation, or diversion from a ticketed itinerary. Makes it an unfair or deceptive practice for an air carrier or foreign air carrier, in the case of a termination, cancellation, nonrenewal, or substantial change in the competitive circumstances of the appointment of a ticket agent by an air carrier or foreign air carrier, to fail: (1) to provide the ticket agent with written notice, and a full statement of reasons for the action, on or before the 90th day preceding the action. And (2) to provide the ticket agent with at least 60 days to correct any deficiency claimed. Exempts from this rule cases of insolvency, an assignment for the benefit of creditors, bankruptcy, or nonpayment of sums due under the appointment. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to prescribe regulations to establish minimum standards for resuscitation, emergency medical, and first-aid equipment and supplies to be carried on board an aircraft capable of carrying at least 30 passengers. Prohibits air carriers or foreign air carriers from preventing, hindering, or failing to assist any passenger from exiting an aircraft if: (1) the aircraft is parked over an hour past its scheduled departure time at an airport terminal gate with access to ramp or other boarding and deplaning facilities. And (2) the aircraft captain has not been informed by air traffic control authorities that the aircraft can be cleared for departure within 15 minutes. Directs the Secretary to require by regulations each air carrier or foreign air carrier to provide, upon request, to their passengers any information concerning the safety of the aircraft and the competency of the aircraft crew. Directs the National Transportation Safety Board to establish and administer a program for victims and survivors of aircraft accidents in which they receive immediate and unrestricted access to information with regard to such accidents. Establishes a toll-free telephone line for the public to provide specified information concerning an aircraft accident. Sets forth civil penalties for violations of this Act.
Republican Form of Government Guarantee Act - Revises Federal criminal code provisions setting penalties for assaulting, resisting, intimidating, or impeding any of specified US officers and employees , to: (1) cover persons who commit such acts against State or local government officers or employees or persons assisting such officers or employees in the performance of official duty. And (2) increase penalties for such acts. Sets a minimum term of two years' imprisonment for: (1) transmitting in interstate or foreign commerce any communication containing a threat to kidnap or injure any person. And (2) depositing, or causing to be delivered, any communication threatening to kidnap or injure any person. Declares that each person not otherwise disqualified, barred, or disabled by State or Federal law shall have the right to participate in a republican form of State government free from interference from unlawful violence and the reasonably perceived threat of such violence. Creates a private cause of action, as well as a government remedy against any individual or organization for a violation of that right. Authorizes the court to award a reasonable attorney's fee to a prevailing plaintiff. Sets a five-year statute of limitations that begins with the date of discovery of the violation. Directs the Attorney General to develop and implement a training program for Federal law enforcement personnel to enable them to deal more effectively with politically motivated violence. Authorizes an agency that determines that an agency employee or agent is being unlawfully and physically prevented from carrying out lawful duties by employees or agents of a State, county, or local government, to file a complaint with the Attorney General. Directs the Attorney General to investigate the complaint and, if the Attorney General finds the complaint is meritorious, to place in escrow any payments that otherwise would be made to that county under the Payments in Lieu of Taxes Act of 1976 until such time as such interference has ceased.
Declares that rail carriers and rail transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Board shall also be subject to the antitrust laws. Repeals the exemption of rate agreements from the Sherman Act, the Clayton Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and specified parts of the Wilson Tariff Act . Repeals the mandate that the Federal Trade Commission report to the Board periodically on possible anticompetitive features of approved rate agreements, or agreements submitted for approval, and any organization operating under such agreements. Prohibits a person proceeding against a rail carrier in a complaint before the Board from proceeding against the same rail carrier pursuant to other Federal or State law, and vice versa. Amends the Clayton Act to conform with this Act.
United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2013 - Declares that Israel is a Major Strategic Partner of the United States. Amends the Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 to extend authority to: (1) make additions to foreign-based defense stockpiles, and (2) transfer certain obsolete or surplus Department of Defense (DOD) items to Israel. Directs the Secretary of Commerce to take steps to make Israel eligible for the strategic trade authorization exception to the requirement for a license for the export, reexport, or in-country transfer of an item subject to certain export controls. Authorizes the President to carry out US-Israel cooperative activities and to provide assistance for cooperation in the fields of energy, water, homeland security, agriculture, and alternative fuel technologies. Directs the President to report to Congress on the feasibility and advisability of establishing a joint United States-Israel Cyber Security Center. Includes Israel in the visa waiver program when Israel satisfies such program's inclusion requirements and provides, subject to security concerns, reciprocal travel privileges for US citizens.
Provides for the use of Patrol members and employees .
Directs the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to report to Congress regarding: (1) a focused, in-depth Independent Safety Assessment of the design, construction, maintenance, and operational safety performance of certain systems at the Indian Point Energy Center, Units 2 and 3, Westchester County, New York. And (2) a comprehensive evaluation of the radiological emergency plan for the Center, conducted by the NRC and the Department of Homeland Security. Requires that such Independent Safety Assessment be: (1) conducted by an Independent Safety Assessment Team. (2) monitored by an Independent Safety Assessment Observation Group and by an Independent Safety Assessment Citizens' Review Team. And (3) equal in scope, depth, and breadth to the Independent Safety Assessment of the Maine Yankee Nuclear Power Plant, located near Bath, Maine, conducted by the NRC in 1996. Prescribes conditions for a final NRC decision to renew the operating licenses for Units 2 and 3 at the Center.
Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to revise procedures under Medicare part B with regard to durable medical equipment, including requirements for: (1) national standards and supplier numbers for suppliers of medical equipment and supplies. (2) standardized certificates of medical necessity and uniform national coverage and utilization review criteria for certain medical equipment and supplies. (3) limited Medicare beneficiary liability for items and services for which payment is prohibited by reason of a supplier's failure to meet such national standards or lack of a valid supplier number. (4) the treatment of nebulizers and aspirators as miscellaneous items of durable medical equipment. And (5) payment of ostomy supplies, tracheostomy supplies, urologicals, surgical dressings, and other medical supplies. Amends SSA title XI to modify anti-kickback provisions. Provides for a freeze under Medicare part B in reasonable charges for parenteral and enteral nutrients, supplies, and equipment during 1994. Requires the Comptroller General to study and report to the Congress on: (1) services and supplies furnished to Medicare-eligible nursing facility residents. And (2) changes made to descriptions relating to codes for medical equipment and supplies.
Propane Education and Research Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to conduct a referendum among producers and retail marketers to authorize the creation of the Propane Education and Research Council and the levying of an assessment on odorized propane. Makes it the Council's mission to develop programs and enter into contracts for: (1) propane research and development, (2) consumer education, (3) propane market development. And (4) payment for program costs with funds collected under this Act. Prescribes guidelines under which the Council shall set annual assessments to cover program costs. Authorizes the Secretary to establish a program to coordinate Council operations with any State propane education and research council. Proscribes the use of Council funds for lobbying activities. Directs the Secretary to issue implementation regulations.
Community-Based Mental Health Infrastructure Improvements Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants to eligible entities for the construction or modernization of facilities to provide mental health and behavioral health services to individuals. Defines an eligible entity as: (1) a state that is the recipient of a Community Mental Health Services Block Grant and a Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant under such Act. Or (2) an Indian tribe or a tribal organization. Includes among grant application requirements assurances that facilities will be used for not less than 10 years for community-based mental health or substance abuse services for those who cannot pay for such services. Permits a grant recipient to request permission to transfer such 10-year obligation to another facility. Authorizes a state that receives a grant to award a subgrant to a qualified community program for activities such as: (1) the construction, expansion, and modernization of mental and behavioral health facilities. And (2) the construction and structural modification of facilities to permit the integrated delivery of behavioral health and primary care of specialty medical services to individuals with co-occurring mental illnesses and chronic medical or surgical diseases at a single service site. Requires a grant recipient to agree to make available nonfederal contributions matching federal funds provided.
Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend temporarily the duty on certain three-ring binders wholly or predominantly covered with polyester fabrics.
Spearfish Canyon and Bismarck Lake Land Exchange Act This bill directs the Department of Agriculture (USDA), if South Dakota conveys to it four parcels of specified nonfederal lands, comprising 1,954 acres, to convey to South Dakota in exchange 1,468 acres known as the quot, Spearfish Canyon Areaquot, and 524 acres known as the quot, Bismarck Lake Areaquot. In the Black Hills National Forest in South Dakota. The values of the federal and nonfederal lands to be exchanged shall be equal. USDA shall complete any environmental analyses required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 regarding the land exchange carried out under this bill. The nonfederal lands acquired by USDA shall be added to and administered as part of the forest. The federal lands acquired by South Dakota shall be managed by it for public recreation uses and the conservation of natural resources.
United States Commission on International Religious Freedom Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2014 - Amends the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 to reauthorize the US Commission on International Religious Freedom through September 30, 2016. Directs the Commission, during an initial election, to elect: (1) as Chair a Commissioner appointed by an elected official of the political party that is not the political party of the President, and (2) as Vice Chair a Commissioner appointed by an elected official of the political party of the President. Sets forth a process for future elections in which the positions of Chair and Vice Chair rotate annually between Commissioners appointed by elected officials of each political party. Requires the Ambassador at Large to be notified in advance of all Commission meetings. Allows the Ambassador to attend all meetings as a nonvoting member. Removes authority under which a Commission member may serve after the expiration of that member's term until a successor has taken office. Requires approval by at least six of the nine members of the Commission before: (1) issuance of a statement on behalf of the Commission, or (2) submittal of policy recommendation reports to the President, the Secretary of State, and Congress. Permits each member to include individual or dissenting views. Authorizes elected officials to appoint majority and minority staff directors for the Commission, as well as professional staff for the political parties.
Directs the Secretary of Labor to make a grant, to a public university with specified characteristics, to establish the Center for the Study of Women and Workplace Policy. Requires the Center to: (1) compile and analyze available data and data sets on the difference between the earnings of men and women, including the Panel Study of Income Dynamic housed at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and to identify factors which affect differences in earnings. And (2) disseminate findings, maintain a website as a clearinghouse, and publish an annual best practices guide.
Alcohol Tax Equalization Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to increase the excise taxes on wine and beer to the alcoholic equivalent of taxes on distilled spirits. Indexes such tax rates based on the cost-of-living adjustment for calendar year 1994. Establishes the Mental Health and Substance Abuse Benefits Trust Fund. Appropriates amounts received under this Act to such Fund.
Requires an agency, whenever it promulgates a regulation, to submit to each House of Congress a report containing its text and an explanation. Sets forth expedited congressional procedures for consideration of agency regulations.
Pension Plan Participant Protection Act of 1998 - Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to set forth certain protections for participants and beneficiaries of terminated pension plans. Subjects the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to specified fiduciary duties and to reporting, disclosure, and other requirements while it serves as trustee of a terminated pension plan. Provides for assessment of civil penalties against the PBGC for violation of such requirements and duties. Allows any affected party to bring a civil action for relief against the PBGC as fiduciary. Requires the court, in any such action in which the PBGC is removed as trustee, to select the replacement trustee from a list of qualified candidates provided by the affected party. Requires the PBGC to issue its final determination regarding any benefit payable under a terminated pension plan within one year after the date of its appointment as plan trustee. Requires any review of such a PBGC benefit determination by a Federal district court to be de novo. Requires the plan trustee to appoint a committee of participants. Authorizes the court, on request of an affected party, to order: (1) the trustee to appoint additional participants' committees if necessary to assure adequate representation. And (2) that a committee of participants not be appointed in a case in which the plan sponsor is a small business. Authorizes the appropriate Federal district court to appoint as the trustee of a terminated pension plan the PBGC, a participants' committee, or any other person. Requires the court, if two or more entities apply to serve as trustee, to base the appointment on its determination of which applicant is most qualified to carry out the fiduciary duties of the trustee without conflicts of interest. Requires payment or reimbursement of reasonable fees or expenses of any trustee other than the PBGC. Directs the Secretary of Labor to establish in the Department of Labor an Office of Participant's Advocate, headed by a Participant's Advocate, which shall: (1) counsel participants and beneficiaries in connection with their benefits rights. And (2) provide legal representation before the PBGC and in court to participants denied benefits by the PBGC. Requires the PBGC, as a trustee of a terminated plan, to: (1) segregate the plan's assets from those of any other plan or any other assets held by the PBGC. (2) use the plan's assets only for payment of benefits or reasonable administrative expenses directly attributable to the plan's termination and administration. And (3) obtain the services of independent contractors in connection with the termination or administration of the plan only through a competitive bidding process.
Community Health Improvement Councils Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a program for the creation of State Health Improvement Technical Assistance Centers and Community Health Improvement Councils to improve community health through local innovation. Defines Community Health Improvement Council to mean a locally driven, private, nonprofit entity that serves as the neutral convener for engaging providers and insurers and that fully engages patients and citizens in coordinating and improving the health care delivery system through community-wide education programs to promote healthier lifestyles, improve local or regional health status, clinical outcomes, and reductions in the growth in medical spending and health disparities through various approaches. Requires the Secretary to award competitive grants to five eligible entities to establish State Health Improvement Technical Assistance Centers, each of which shall: (1) establish up to four Community Health Improvement Councils, (2) provide technical assistance to such Councils. And (3) report on improvements in local and state health status, clinical outcomes, reductions in medical spending growth, and health care disparities. Requires the Secretary, in awarding grants, to give preference to entities that: (1) demonstrate the capacity to attract private sector or local government funding to ensure fiscal sustainability, (2) address significant health disparities, (3) demonstrate coordination or collaboration across governmental and nongovernmental sectors. (4) are committed to promoting full transparency of all deliberations of the Technical Assistance Centers and Community Health Improvement Councils. And (5) are independent from government and the financial self-interest of health care and purchasers stakeholders.
Entitles a surviving spouse to a benefit for the month of a veteran's death if, at the time of the veteran's death: (1) the veteran was receiving veterans' disability compensation or veteran's pension, or (2) the veteran was not receiving such compensation or pension but had a claim pending for the month of the veteran's death for which benefits would have been payable had the veteran not died. Prohibits the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) from requesting the return of a check or payment made to a surviving spouse, in the month in which the veteran's death occurs, as additional compensation for a dependent or additional pension as a married veteran. Includes under the VA's presidential memorial certificate program an individual who dies during active service. Considers a veteran who is unable to occupy a home because of active-duty status to have satisfied the occupancy requirement relating to housing financed through the VA if the veteran's dependent child is occupying or will occupy the home and the veteran's attorney or a legal guardian of the dependent child makes the VA-required occupancy certification. Authorizes the VA to guarantee a veterans' housing loan regardless of whether such loan is subordinate to a lien created in favor of a public entity that provides assistance in response to a major disaster.
Deems: (1) the full equalization of allotments under the Agua Caliente Equalization Act of 1959 to have been completed. And (2) the entitlement of holders of equalized allotments to distribution of net revenues from parcel B under such Act to have expired. Amends Federal law relating to the Agua Caliente Reservation in California to repeal the restriction on the distribution of net rents, profits, and other revenues from the Mineral Springs parcel to certain members of the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians. Makes such repeal applicable as if enacted on March 31, 1983. Provides for any per capita distribution of tribal revenues to be made to all members of the Band in equal amounts.
ANCSA Unrecognized Community Landless Natives Authorization Act of 2017 This bill amends the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to permit the Alaska Native residents of each of the Alaska Native villages of Haines, Ketchikan, Petersburg, Tenakee, and Wrangell, Alaska, to organize as Alaska Native urban corporations and to receive certain settlement land. These urban corporations may establish a settlement trust to promote the health, education, and welfare of the trust beneficiaries, and preserve the Alaska Native heritage and culture of their communities.
Fair Access to Investment Research Act of 2016 This bill directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to revise a specified regulation to create a safe harbor for certain publications or distributions of research reports by brokers or dealers distributing securities. The revised regulation shall declare that a published or distributed investment fund research report shall not be deemed to constitute an offer for sale or an offer to sell a security that is the subject of the offering pursuant to an effective registration statement, even if the broker or dealer is participating or will participate in the registered offering of the covered investment fund's securities. The covered investment fund research report shall indeed be deemed to satisfy the regulation's requirements as well as those of any self-regulatory organization. The SEC shall not impose specified conditions and requirements when implementing the safe harbor. Until the SEC has adopted such safe harbor revisions, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has revised a related rule, a covered investment fund shall be deemed to be a security listed on a national securities exchange that is not subject to a certain filing requirement of the Investment Company Act of 1940.
National Labor Relations Reorganization Act of 2011 - Amends the National Labor Relations Act to abolish the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Transfers all functions of the NLRB for overseeing elections of collective bargaining representatives to the Secretary of Labor, to be carried out through the Office of Labor-Management Standards. Establishes within the Department of Justice (DOJ) a Bureau of Labor Relations Enforcement, to which are transferred all functions of the NLRB for the prevention of unfair labor practices.
Minority Entrepreneurship and Innovation Pilot Program of 2006 - Directs the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to make grants to historically Black colleges and universities, Tribal Colleges, and Hispanic serving institutions, or to any entity formed by a combination of such institutions: (1) to assist in establishing an entrepreneurship curriculum for undergraduate or graduate studies. And (2) for the placement of small business development centers on the physical campus of the institution. Requires an institution of higher education receiving a grant to: (1) develop a curriculum that includes training in various skill sets needed by successful entrepreneurs. And (2) open a small business development center. Limits this pilot program to two fiscal years, and a grant to $1 million per fiscal year for any one institution of higher education.
State and Local Government Economic Empowerment Act - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to issue an interest-free loan to any State, county, incorporated municipality, or Indian tribe upon obtaining appropriate assurances that the proceeds of the loan will be used solely for funding capital projects, including the construction of or improvements to: (1) streets, highways, bridges, and tunnels, (2) waste water and sewer systems. And (3) infrastructure and other public facilities. Sets maximum loan limitations. Entitles each such unit of government to obtain an interest-free loan unless it is delinquent in repaying a prior loan.
Healthy School Meals Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to select school food authorities to participate in a pilot program evaluating the use of plant-based alternate protein products and fluid milk substitutes under the school lunch and breakfast programs. Directs the Secretary to: (1) deliver plant-based alternate protein products and fluid milk substitutes to such food authorities at no cost for the preparation of meals under the school lunch and breakfast programs. And (2) assess which of such foods would be best for more general use in the school lunch and breakfast programs, and deliver them for general use under such programs, within two years of this Acts' enactment. Requires the Secretary, within two years of this Act's enactment, to promulgate regulations that: (1) reflect specific recommendations for increased consumption of plant-based foods. And (2) provide for the distribution of supplemental commodity assistance or cash in lieu thereof to states and certain school food authorities that offer a plant-based entree on their daily lunch menus, for the purchase of entirely plant-based commodity food products or fluid milk substitutes. Requires schools participating in the school lunch program to serve a nondairy beverage that is nutritionally equivalent to fluid milk and meets certain nutritional standards to students who cannot consume fluid milk because of a disability or medical or other special dietary need.
Native American $1 Coin Act - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to mint and issue $1 coins in commemoration of Native Americans and the important contributions made by Indian tribes and individual Native Americans to the development of the United States and the history of the United States. Requires the issuance of such coins during each year to be emblematic of one important Native American or Native American contribution.
Amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Internal Revenue Code, and the Public Health Service Act to remove all limitations on Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) continuation coverage that establish a period by which such coverage must end, and instead provides no deadline for discontinuing such coverage. Sets forth a formula to determine the maximum allowable premium that certain qualified disabled beneficiaries and individuals receiving extended coverage provided pursuant to this Act may be charged based on the average monthly actuarial cost of such continuation coverage. Applies such provisions to continuation coverage provided pursuant to the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program (FEHBP).
Alaska Native Veterans Land Allotment Equity Act - Amends the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) with respect to the open season during which certain Alaska Native Vietnam veterans are eligible to file for allotments of up to two parcels of federal land totaling up to 160 acres. Ends such open season three years after regulations have been issued under this Act. Revises the requirements for selection of such allotments. Allows allotments to be selected from land that is selected by or conveyed to the State of Alaska or a Native Corporation if the State or Native Corporation voluntarily relinquishes or conveys to the United States the land for the allotment. Limits the prohibition against the conveyance of certain allotments to: (1) lands within the right-of-way granted for the TransAlaska Pipeline. Or (2) the inner or outer corridor of such right-of-way. Expands the eligibility for allotment to veterans who served between August 5, 1964, and May 7, 1975. Allows an heir to apply for and receive an allotment on behalf of the estate of a deceased eligible individual. Prescribes criteria for the approval of allotment applications. Permits any person who made an allotment selection under this Act to withdraw it and reselect land in accordance with this Act, if the land originally selected: (1) was selected before enactment of this Act. And (2) as of the enactment of this Act, was not conveyed to the person.
Free Speech Protection Act of 2008 - Allows any US person against whom a lawsuit for defamation is brought in a foreign country on the basis of the content of any speech by that person that has been published, uttered, or otherwise disseminated in the United States to bring an action in a US district court against any person who, or entity which, brought the suit, if the speech at issue in the foreign lawsuit does not constitute defamation under US law. Allows the award of treble damages if it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that the person or entity bringing the foreign lawsuit intentionally engaged in a scheme to suppress rights under the First Amendment to the Constitution by discouraging publishers or other media from publishing, or by discouraging financial supporters from employing, retaining, or supporting the research, writing, or other speech of an individual.
Common Sense Product Liability Reform Act of 1995 - Declares that this Act: (1) does not provide US district courts with jurisdiction over product liability actions based on specified provisions of the Federal judicial code. (2) governs any product liability action brought in any State or Federal court against a manufacturer or product seller, on any theory for harm caused by a product, except product liability actions brought against a manufacturer or product seller for commercial losses which shall be governed only by applicable commercial or contract law. And (3) supersedes State law only to the extent that such law applies to an issue covered by this Act. Makes a product seller other than a manufacturer liable to a claimant in a product liability action only if the claimant establishes that: (1) the seller sold the product which allegedly caused the harm, the seller failed to exercise reasonable care with respect to the product, and such failure was a proximate cause of the claimant's harm. (2) the seller made an express warranty applicable to the product independent of any express warranty made by a manufacturer, the product failed to conform to the warranty, and such failure caused the claimant's harm. Or (3) the seller engaged in intentional wrongdoing as determined under applicable State law and such intentional wrongdoing was a proximate cause of the harm complained of by the claimant. Specifies that a product seller shall: (1) not be considered to have failed to exercise reasonable care based upon an alleged failure to inspect a product where there was no reasonable opportunity to inspect the product in a manner which would have revealed the aspect of the product which allegedly caused the claimant's harm. And (2) be liable, in a product liability action, for harm to the claimant caused by such product as if the seller were the manufacturer of such product if the manufacturer is not subject to service of process under the laws of any State in which the action might have been brought, or the court determines that the claimant would be unable to enforce a judgement against the manufacturer. Makes it a complete defense to a product liability action that the claimant: (1) was intoxicated or under the influence of intoxicating alcohol or any drug. And (2) as a result of such influence, was more than 50 percent responsible for the accident or event which resulted in such claimant's harm. Specifies that in a product liability action the liability of each defendant for noneconomic loss shall be several only and not joint, and that each defendant shall be liable only for the amount of noneconomic loss attributable to such defendant's proportionate share of fault or responsibility for the claimant's harm, as determined by the trier of fact. Bars a product liability action unless the complaint is served and filed within 15 years after the time of delivery of the product, with exceptions. Authorizes punitive damages, to the extent permitted by applicable State law, in any product liability action in Federal or State court against a defendant if the claimant establishes by clear and convincing evidence that the harm suffered was the result of conduct specifically intended to cause harm or conduct manifesting a conscious, flagrant indifference to the safety of those persons who might be harmed by the product for which the action was brought. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) proportional awards, (2) applicability and preemption, and (3) bifurcation of proceedings at either party's request.
Agricultural Market Promotion Program Amendments Act of 1993 - Amends the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 with regard to the agricultural market promotion program to: (1) give priority to, and obligate specified funds for, small and medium beginning exporters. (2) permit assistance for branded promotion only to supplement an entity's own promotional activities, (3) prohibit assistance for tobacco promotion. And (4) incrementally reduce and eliminate over a five-year period assistance for branded and generic promotion in a foreign country.
Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 2015 This bill directs the Department of Homeland Security to adjust to permanent resident status a qualifying Liberian national who: (1) has been continuously present in the United States between January 1, 2013, through the date of status adjustment application. Or (2) is the spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter of such an alien. Adjustment applications must be filed not later than one year after the date of enactment of this bill.
Voluntary Certification Program Act of 2014 - Amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to require the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to rely on voluntary programs for certifying manufacturer compliance with energy conservation performance standards for air conditioning, furnace, boiler, heat pump, and water heater products. Sets forth required characteristics of such certification programs.
Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to grant easements or rights-of-way on the outer Continental Shelf for activities that: (1) support exploration, development, production, transportation, or storage of oil, natural gas, or other minerals. (2) produce or support production, transportation, or transmission of energy sources other than oil and gas. Or (3) use facilities for previously authorized activities. Excludes any National Marine Sanctuary from application of this Act.
Clean Vehicles Incentive Act ofnbsp. 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow certain businesses located in areas designated as nonattainment areas under the Clean Air Act a general business tax credit for the cost of certain clean-fuel vehicle property and the use of clean-burning fuel. Allows the credit to be taken against regular and alternative minimum tax liabilities. Allows a tax deduction for any unused clean fuel credit amounts. Allows a new qualified hybrid motor vehicle tax credit for any taxable year after 2012 only for such a vehicle which is placed in service after December 31, 2012, by an eligible business and substantially all of the use of which is in a nonattainment area.
Electronic Employment Verification Reauthorization Act of 2008 - Amends the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 to make the employment eligibility confirmation pilot programs permanent. Redesignates the basic pilot program as the E-verify program (program). Requires that any person or employer that enters into a federal contract participate in the program. Requires that an employer electing to verify the employment eligibility of existing employees do so not later than 10 days after notifying the Secretary of Homeland Security of such election. Authorizes the Secretary to require an employer or class of employers to participate in the program if the Secretary has reasonable cause to believe that the employer has engaged in material employment violations under the Immigration and Nationality Act. Requires that an employer participating in the program use the confirmation system to reverify an individual's work authorization not later than three days after the date on which such individual's employment authorization is scheduled to expire. Requires that the Director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services establish in a rural setting or in an area with fewer than 10,000 residents a demonstration program to assist small businesses verify the employment eligibility of newly hired employees.
Clinical Laboratory Compliance Improvement Act of 2004 - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require each provider or clinical laboratory approved for participation under Medicare to provide clinical diagnostic laboratory tests to post in a conspicuous place a notice to employees that indicates the manner in which to report instances of noncompliance with conditions of participation. Prohibits such a provider or clinical laboratory from discriminating against or retaliating in any manner against any employee because that employee, or any other person, has presented a grievance or complaint, or has initiated or cooperated in any investigation or proceeding of any kind, relating to the clinical diagnostic laboratory tests performed or other requirements and prohibitions of Medicare. Provides for judicial action for any employee so aggrieved. Requires the investigative organization, upon receipt of a report of an instance of noncompliance, to: (1) provide notice to the Secretary and other investigative organizations involved of receipt of the report within three business days, using a standard format and manner of transmission developed by the Secretary for such purpose, (2) promptly determine whether to investigate the report. And (3) if appropriate, promptly investigate it. Requires that the Secretary, in measuring the performance of an investigative organization under contract, to provide for appropriate adjustments to payments for failure to carry out the responsibilities of this Act. Subjects each provider or clinical laboratory to a standard survey, including verification of compliance with requirements, conducted without prior notice. Makes liable for civil monetary penalties any individual who notifies a provider or laboratory of the time or date on which such a survey is scheduled to be conducted.
Establishes a teacher loan forgiveness program for mathematics and science teachers.
Durham Woods Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1994 - Amends the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 to instruct the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations requiring: (1) periodic inspections of natural gas pipeline facilities with the use of instrumented internal inspection devices at least once every seven years in high-density population areas. And (2) transmission pipeline operators to institute a monthly inspection program for hazards and line markers along pipeline rights-of-way. Declares it is a criminal offense to knowingly damage a natural gas pipeline facility and subsequently fail to report such damage. Increases the civil and criminal penalties for violations of this Act. Directs the Secretary to: (1) make grants to the States to promote public awareness programs regarding the dangers of excavating near natural gas pipelines. (2) study and report to the Congress on the safety of all natural gas transmission pipelines in the State of New Jersey and on an assessment of the risks to public safety and the environment posed by natural gas pipeline transportation. And (3) develop a comprehensive mapping program to identify the specific location of all transmission pipelines in the country.
Radiation Experimentation Compensation Act of 1995 - Apologizes on behalf of the Nation to the individuals who were the subjects of radiation experiments conducted by the Federal Government, as well as to their families for the hardships they have endured as a result. Establishes in the Treasury the Radiation Experimentation Compensation Trust Fund for compensating the subjects of experiments conducted between January 1, 1940, and December 31, 1974, during which the subjects were intentionally injected with plutonium or zirconium, or exposed to total body radiation, without their informed consent. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Attorney General to establish procedures for the submission of claims and for payment from amounts in the Fund of each claim meeting the requirements of this Act. Provides for payments in cases of deceased experimental subjects. States that payments under this Act which are accepted by a subject or the subject's survivors shall be in full satisfaction of all claims of or on behalf of the subject against the United States arising out of the subject's participation in the experiment. Provides that a payment under this Act shall not affect any claim against an insurance carrier with respect to insurance or against any person with respect to workers' compensation. Provides for judicial review of denied claims. Establishes a time limit for the filing of claims of 20 years after enactment of this Act.
Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard Deadline Harmonization Act of 2015 This bill delays the implementation of the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) 2015 national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for ozone issued under the Clean Air Act. Each state must designate all of its areas as attainment, nonattainment, or unclassifiable with respect to the 2015 ozone standards by October 26, 2024. The EPA must promulgate final designations for those areas by October 26, 2025. States must submit a state implementation plan for the 2015 ozone standards by October 26, 2026. The 2015 ozone standards do not apply to the review and disposition of an application for a preconstruction permit for the construction or modification of a major emitting facility or major stationary source if: (1) the application is completed before final designations under the Clean Air Act, or (2) the applicable permitting authority publishes a public notice of a preliminary determination or draft permit for the application before a certain date. The bill changes the interval by which the EPA must review its NAAQS for criteria pollutants from a 5-year review cycle to a 10-year review cycle. The EPA must not complete any review of ozone criteria or its ozone NAAQS before October 26, 2025, or propose any revisions to them.
Social Security Administration Accountability Act of 2012 - Amends title VII (Administration) of the Social Security Act to require the Commissioner of Social Security to submit an annual budget estimate of the Social Security Administration (SSA) directly to Congress and the President . Revises requirements for the general contents of the SSA budget, requiring inclusion of the number of cases pending at each hearing office and the average processing time. Prohibits the Commissioner from closing or consolidating SSA field or hearing offices, or otherwise limiting public access to one, until 180 days after submitting to specified congressional committees a detailed report outlining and justifying the process for selecting field offices to be closed, consolidated, or otherwise have limited access. Prohibits the Commissioner from closing an SSA field or hearing office, consolidating two or more such offices, or otherwise imposing any new limitation on public access to any such office unless the Commissioner follows certain administrative procedures.
Medicare Drug Formulary Protection Act - Amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to prohibit removal of covered part D drugs from a prescription drug plan formulary, or imposition of a restriction or limitation on the coverage of such a drug, during the plan year: (1) except at the beginning. Or (2) for an individual enrollee, from the date of enrollment until December 31 of the immediately succeeding plan year. Specifies exceptions to such prohibition. Requires an annual notice to enrollees of changes in formulary and other restrictions or limitations on coverage.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on November 17, 2016. Veterans Mobility Safety Act of 2016 This bill directs the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to ensure that an eligible disabled veteran provided an automobile or other conveyance is given the opportunity to make personal selections relating to such conveyance. The VA shall develop a comprehensive policy regarding quality standards for providers of modification services to veterans under the automobile adaptive equipment program. Such policy shall cover: (1) management of the automobile adaptive equipment program, (2) development and application of safety and quality standards for equipment and installation, (3) provider certification by a third party organization or manufacturer, (4) manufacturer certification of a provider, (5) education and training of VA personnel, (6) provider compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and (7) allowance for veterans to receive modifications at their residence or location of choice. The VA shall approve a manufacturer as a certifying manufacturer if such manufacturer demonstrates that its certification standards meet or exceed the quality standards provided for by this bill. The VA may approve two or more private, nonprofit organizations as third party, nonprofit certifying organizations. The VA shall: (1) within one year and at least every six years thereafter, update VHA Handbook 1173.4 in accordance with such policy. And (2) within one year of such update and biennially thereafter through 2022, report on policy implementation and facility compliance. The VA shall: (1) develop and revise such policy in consultation with veteran service organizations, the National Highway Transportation Administration, industry representatives, manufacturers of automobile adaptive equipment, and other entities with relevant expertise. And (2) ensure against the use of a certifying entity that has a financial conflict of interest regarding the certification of an eligible provider. The VA may appoint licensed hearing aid specialists to the Veterans Health Administration. The VA shall ensure that: (1) a hearing aid specialist may only perform hearing services consistent with the specialist's state license related to the practice of fitting and dispensing hearing aids, without excluding other qualified professionals from rendering services in overlapping practice areas. (2) services provided to veterans by hearing aid specialists shall be provided as part of the non-medical treatment plan developed by an audiologist. And (3) VA medical facilities provide veterans with access to the full range of audiologist services. The VA shall, within one year and annually thereafter for the next five years, report on: (1) veterans access to such hearing health services. And (2) VA contracting policies for providing hearing health services to veterans in non-VA facilities, including the number of veterans referred to audiologists and hearing aid specialists.
Measuring the Economic Impact of Broadband Act of 2018 This bill requires the Department of Commerce to assess, and submit a report regarding, the effects of the digital economy on the US economy. In conducting the assessment, Commerce must: (1) consider the impact of the deployment and adoption of digital-enabling infrastructure and broadband, e-commerce and platform-enabled peer-to-peer commerce, and the production and consumption of digital media. And (2) consult with other government agencies, businesses, rural and urban Internet service and telecommunications infrastructure providers, and consumer and community organizations.
National Improvised Explosive Device Prevention and Preparedness Act of 2008 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish the Office for Bombing Prevention, which shall have primary responsibility within the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for enhancing the nation's ability, and coordinating its efforts, to deter, detect, prevent, protect against, intercept, and respond to terrorist improvised explosive device (IED) attacks. Transfers to the Office all functions of the current Office for Bombing Prevention of DHS's Office of Infrastructure Protection. Directs the Secretary of DHS to ensure that a Homeland Security Advisory Council subcommittee, to be known as the Senior Advisory Committee on Improvised Explosive Device Prevention and Response, is established. Requires the Committee to: (1) provide policy guidance and recommendations, (2) develop best practices, training, and basic operational procedures. (3) promote interoperability and information sharing between the federal government and IED first responders. And (4) meet annually to review grant applications under the Bomb Prevention and Response Grant Program and provide advice on proposed grant allocations. Requires the Secretary's annual report on progress in achieving compliance with the correction of Coast Guard identified vulnerabilities in port security and compliance with Area Maritime Transportation Security Plans and facility security plans to include: (1) the identification of modifications necessary in funding to ensure the correction of capability gaps identified by the Coast Guard and the dive team component of the national analysis database on the capabilities of IED first responders. And (2) an assessment of progress in completing assessments for the dive team component for all applicable ports.
National Intelligence Education and Training Act - Directs the Attorney General to: (1) maintain an Academy for Law Enforcement Intelligence for training Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers and analysts in the analysis, dissemination, and management of intelligence. And (2) establish the Advisory Board on Law Enforcement Intelligence to advise the Attorney General regarding the Academy's operation, instruction and content of curriculum, appointment of staff and hiring of contract instructors, and efforts to promote the intelligence profession among undergraduate and graduate students. Directs the Attorney General to carry out a pilot program, known as the Law Enforcement Analyst Training Assistance Program, to assess providing for the preparation of selected students for employment as intelligence analysts for US law enforcement agencies. Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to direct that not less than 25 percent of COPS program grant funds be made available for activities to: (1) increase the number of State and local law enforcement officers or employees involved in developing intelligence for countering terrorism, crime, or both. (2) provide specialized training to not more than five intelligence officers per grant recipient to enhance observational, intelligence-gathering, foreign language, and analytical skills, (3) improve Federal-State-local law enforcement coordination. And (4) ensure that not less than one intelligence officer per grant recipient has at least a top secret level security clearance.
Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests Protection Act - Incorporates specified proposed wilderness additions into the Cucamonga and Sheep Mountain Wilderness Areas in the Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests in California. Sets forth provisions regarding private property and water rights protections and permissible activities in such additions. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to take such measures in the Cucamonga, Sheep Mountain, and San Gabriel Wilderness Areas that are necessary for the control of fire, insects, and diseases. Directs the Secretary to assess a specified maintenance backlog in the Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests. Requires completion of the studies regarding the potential addition of portions of the San Gabriel River, San Antonio Creek, and Middle Fork Lytle Creek in California to the national wild and scenic rivers system.
Investment Tax Incentive Act of 1993 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow the depreciation deduction to be computed based on a neutral recovery basis for property placed in service after December 31, 1992. Repeals the special depreciation rules applicable under the adjusted current earnings provisions of the minimum tax.
Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness Act of 2009 - Adjusts to permanent resident status a qualifying Liberian national who: (1) has been continuously present in the United States from January 1, 2009, through the date of status adjustment application. Or (2) is the spouse, child, or unmarried son or daughter of such an alien. Requires adjustment applications to be filed before April 1, 2011.
Domestic Violence Prevention, Education, and Awareness Act - Requires the Attorney General, acting through the Violence Against Women Office, to make grants to public or private nonprofit entities, States, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations to carry out public information campaigns to educate racial and ethnic minority communities and immigrant communities about domestic violence, including its effects, methods of preventing or reducing it, and available services to such victims.
African Development Foundation Act of 2006 - Amends the the African Development Foundation Act to redesignate the African Development Foundation as the United States African Development Foundation. Specifies that small enterprises, producer associations, and cooperatives are eligible for Foundation assistance grants, loans, and loan guarantee assistance. Increases the project assistance ceiling and permits such amount to be exceeded in exceptional circumstances upon Board of Directors approval and congressional notification. Requires a small enterprise to have its ownership and management and daily business operations vested in one or more individuals who are indigenous to Africa in order to qualify for Foundation assistance. Authorizes the Foundation to provide eligible recipients with technical assistance. Revises specified salary and hiring provisions.
Commission on the Review of the Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States Act of 2011 - Establishes the Commission on the Review of the Overseas Military Facility Structure of the United States to: (1) conduct a thorough study of matters relating to the US overseas military facility structure, and (2) report study findings and conclusions to the President and Congress. Requires the report to include a proposal for an overseas basing strategy for the Department of Defense (DOD) to meet current and future DOD missions during periods of heightened fiscal constraints.
Directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to jointly conduct an investigation of the billing practices of telecommunications carriers (carriers) to determine whether bills sent to customers accurately assess and characterize any additional fees paid by customers for telecommunications services as a result of the enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Requires access to carrier records relevant to such investigation. Directs either the FCC or FTC to take appropriate disciplinary actions against carriers whose customer bills inaccurately assess and characterize such fees. Requires a joint report to the Congress on investigation results. Requires carriers that include on customer bills a charge or charges attributed to Federal regulatory actions to: (1) specify in such bill any reduction in charges or fees allocable to all classes of customers by reason of such regulatory actions. And (2) submit to the FCC certain disclosure reports required to be submitted by such carriers to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Welfare Integrity and Data Improvement Act - Amends part A (TANF) of SSA title IV to extend the TANF program through FY2012. Directs the Secretary of HHS to designate standard data elements for any category of information required to be reported under TANF. Requires states to maintain policies and practices necessary to prevent the use of state TANF assistance in any transaction in any: (1) liquor store, (2) casino, gambling casino, or gaming establishment. Or (3) retail establishment which provides adult-oriented entertainment in which performers disrobe or perform in an unclothed state for entertainment. Prescribes an administrative penalty for states which failure to enforce such requirement.
Trade Dress Protection Act - Amends the Trademark Act of 1946 to add to the list of trademarks that may be refused registration on the principal register on account of their nature those marks that comprise any matter that, as a whole, is functional. Authorizes trade dress which functions as a mark to be registered and protected without the need to show that it has become distinctive if the relevant public is likely to identify the source of the product or service by reference to the subject matter claimed as trade dress. Revises a provision regarding registration on the supplemental register to authorize registration of a mark that: (1) consists of any symbol, name, word, slogan, phrase, surname, geographical name, numeral, device, color, label, any matter that is not functional, or any combination of the foregoing. And (2) is capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods or services. Defines trade dress as the total image or overall appearance of a product or service. Prohibits registration or protection of trade dress that is functional. Defines functional, with respect to matter seeking protection under the Act, to mean that the matter is of such superior design that to afford it protection would significantly hinder effective competition. Places the burden of proving that matter is not functional in a civil action for trade dress infringement for unregistered trade dress on the person asserting trade dress protection.
Census Improvement Act - Prohibits any organization that has been indicted for a violation of law relating to an election for federal or state office or that employs or otherwise uses the services of an individual who has been indicted for such a violation from participating in the Planning Partnership Program for the 2010 census of population. Provides that no bill, joint resolution, amendment, or conference report containing a provision which would have the effect of limiting the application of provisions regarding the confidentiality of census information shall be considered as passed or agreed to by either chamber of Congress except by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Members voting. Requires: (1) the Secretary of Commerce to submit to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) a copy of each question proposed to be included in the 2010 census and the American Community Survey. (2) GAO to review and report to Congress on such questions. And (3) the Secretary to include his or her views on, and GAO to specifically address, the reasons for each question, the purposes for which the information obtained is likely to be used, alternative means by which the same information could be obtained, and the relative advantages and disadvantages of obtaining the information through a census or survey. Prohibits any person conducting the Survey or 2010 census from seeking answers to any questions relating to a household or any member of such household from any person who is not a member of that household.
Amends the Water Resources Development Act of 1999 to: (1) authorize appropriations for FY 1999 through 2009 for implementation of a long-term resource monitoring program with respect to the Upper Mississippi River Environmental Management Program. (2) authorize the Secretary of the Army to carry out modifications to the navigation project for the Delaware River, Pennsylvania and Delaware, if such project as modified is technically sound, environmentally acceptable, and economically justified. (3) subject certain previously deauthorized water resources development projects to the seven-year limitation governing project deauthorizations under the Act, with the exception of such a project for Indian River County, Florida. (4) except from a certain schedule of the non-Federal cost of the periodic nourishment of shore protection projects constructed after December 31, 1999, those projects for which a District Engineer's Report has been completed by such date. (5) require that the project cooperation agreement for the Comite River Diversion Project for flood control include a provision that specifies that any reduction in the non-Federal share that results from certain modifications be credited toward the share of project costs to be paid by the Amite River Basin Drainage and Water Conservation District. (6) allow the Secretary to provide additional compensation to Chesapeake City, Maryland for damage to its water supply resulting from the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal Project. (7) provide for the submission of certain reports on water resources development projects by the Secretary, notwithstanding Federal reporting termination provisions. And (8) authorize and provide for an authorization of appropriations for the existing program for the safety and operations expenses of the Federal Railroad Administration, and make available for obligation funds currently appropriated for such program.
Refinancing Education Funding to Invest (REFI) for the Future Act of 2013 - Directs the Secretary of the Treasury, upon determining that borrowers are unable to secure adequate credit accommodations with existing private education loans, to establish credit facilities to: (1) accommodate reasonable loan adjustments that reduce the likelihood that borrowers become delinquent or default on their loans, (2) benefit borrowers that are most likely to have private student debt service obligations that represent a disproportionate share of their income, and (3) ensure that borrowers pay lower interest rates that are commensurate with credit risk so that they can pursue more economically productive activities. Requires the decision that borrowers are unable to secure adequate credit accommodations to be made by the Secretary jointly with the Secretary of Education and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB). Prohibits the establishment of such credit mechanisms from resulting in any net cost to the federal government. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to conduct a national awareness campaign to alert all private education loan borrowers who may benefit from those credit facilities or programs. Terminates any activities initiated through such a credit facility three years after such facility is established or not later than five years after this Act's enactment. Expresses the sense of the Congress that federal financial institutions and federally chartered private entities should consider the timely use of their available authorities to assist borrowers of private education loans in refinancing such loans in a manner that results in no increased costs to taxpayers.
Child Safety Lock Act of 2001 - Amends the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act to prohibit a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer from selling, delivering, or transferring a handgun without a locking device to any person other than a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer, with exceptions for law enforcement and governmental entities. Specifies that nothing in this Act shall be construed to create a cause of action against any firearms dealer or any other person for civil liability, or establish any standard of care. Makes evidence regarding compliance or noncompliance with this Act inadmissible in a proceeding of any court, agency, board, or other entity, except with respect to an action to enforce this Act. Sets forth civil penalties for related violations, including suspension or loss of license. Amends the Consumer Product Safety Act to direct the Consumer Product Safety Commission to initiate a rulemaking proceeding to establish a consumer product safety standard for locking devices.
Hurricane Katrina Disaster Inquiry Commission Act of 2005 - Directs the President to establish an independent nonpartisan Commission within the executive branch to discover and assess the circumstances relating to the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina on or between Friday, August 26, 2005, and Tuesday, August 30, 2005. Directs the Commission to: (1) chronicle the trajectory of Hurricane Katrina, including the timetable and locations of its path, and the responses made by the federal, state, and local governments. (2) estimate the loss of life, physical and structural damage, and displacement of residents, (3) recommend corrective actions. And (4) prepare a report to Congress, the President, and the public.
Stopping Abuse and Fraud in Electronic Lending Act of 2018 or the SAFE Lending Act of 2018 This bill amends the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and the Truth in Lending Act. The bill revises requirements related to consumer financial protection and small-dollar lending, including matters concerning remotely created checks, electronic fund transfers, registration of small-dollar lenders, overdraft fees, and the collection of personal information.
NATO Expansion Act of 1994 - Expresses the sense of the Congress with respect to NATO membership of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia. Authorizes the President to establish a program to assist the transition to full NATO membership for Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and other European countries emerging from communist domination designated pursuant to this Act. Permits the President to provide specified security assistance to such countries, including excess defense articles, economic support fund assistance, international military education and training, and foreign military financing. Authorizes the President to provide additional assistance from the Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund and Countries in Transition accounts. Permits the President to designate other European countries emerging from communist domination to receive assistance under this Act if he reports to the appropriate congressional committees that such countries: (1) have made significant progress toward establishing democratic institutions, free market economies, civilian control of their armed forces, and the rule of law. And (2) are likely to be in a position to further the principles of the North Atlantic Treaty and to contribute to the security of the North Atlantic area. Authorizes the President to confer, pursuant to agreement with any country eligible to participate in the Partnership for Peace, rights with respect to the military and related civilian personnel and activities of that country in the United States comparable to those conferred by that country with respect to the United States.
Training and Research in Urology Act of 2004 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to separate the research and training on urologic diseases from that of kidney and hematologic diseases. Replaces the Division Director for Kidney, Urologic, and Hematologic Diseases in the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases with a Division Director for Urologic Diseases and a Division Director for Kidney and Hematologic Diseases. Requires the Director of the Institute to: (1) give particular attention to supporting research and training programs geared to the needs of urology residents and fellows. And (2) submit to Congress a national urologic research plan and review such plan every three years. Replaces the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Data System, the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse, and the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Advisory Board with separate data systems, information clearinghouses, and advisory boards for kidney diseases and urologic diseases. Replaces the Kidney, Urologic, and Hematologic Diseases Interagency Coordinating Committee and the Institute's advisory panel subcommittee on kidney, urologic, and hematologic diseases with separate coordinating committees and subcommittees for: (1) kidney and hematologic diseases. And (2) urologic diseases. Requires at least 15 of the centers developed for research in kidney and urologic diseases under the Public Health Service Act to focus exclusively on urologic diseases. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a loan repayment program for urology research.
Reclamation Recreation Management Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal Water Project Recreation Act to allow fees to be collected under a project for recreation or fish and wildlife enhancement (project) and retained and used by the participating non-federal entities for operation, maintenance, and replacement of recreation facilities on project lands and waters being managed by such entities. Requires excess revenues to be credited to the Reclamation Fund. Repeals provisions limiting the modification of such projects. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) investigate, plan, construct, replace, manage, operate, maintain, or otherwise provide for public use and enjoyment of project lands, facilities, and water areas in a manner coordinated with other project purposes. And (2) modify or expand existing facilities. Requires: (1) amounts collected for admission to or recreation use of project land and waters to be deposited into a special account in the Fund. And (2) at least 60 percent of such amounts to be used at the site from which the fees were collected. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) investigate, plan, design, construct, replace, manage, operate, and maintain recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement facilities and services. And (2) acquire or otherwise make available adjacent lands or interests for public recreation or fish and wildlife use. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) enter into agreements with other non-federal entities for recreation and concession management at Bureau of Reclamation projects. And (2) make available to the public information about Bureau programs. Directs the Secretary to construct recreational facilities at Lost Creek Reservoir, Utah. Amends the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act to authorize the Secretary to participate in the planning, design, and construction of, and land acquisition for, a project to reclaim and reuse wastewater, including degraded groundwaters, within and outside the service area of the City of Austin Water and Wastewater Utility, Texas. Prohibits the Federal cost share of such project from exceeding 25 percent. Authorizes the Secretary to conduct a feasibility study on raising the height of Arthur V. Watkins Dam and thereby enlarging the Willard Bay Reservoir for the development of additional storage to meet water supply needs within the Weber Basin Project area. Requires a report from the Secretary to Congress. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Water Desalination Act of 1996 to: (1) authorize the Secretary to enter into cooperative and interagency agreements for research to develop processes for converting saline water into water suitable for beneficial uses, and (2) extend the authorization of appropriations through FY 2008.
Retirement Account Distribution Improvement Act of 2008 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to suspend in 2008, 2009, and 2010 requirements for minimum distributions from tax-deferred retirement plans. Permits taxpayers who have already received a minimum distribution in 2008 to recontribute such distribution to their retirement plans by July 1, 2009.
Small Business Health Plans Act of 2006 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a small business health benefits program (SBHBP) under which small businesses may offer health insurance coverage to employees and their dependents. Outlines program elements and coverage requirements. Requires the Secretary to establish a program of premium assistance for small employers under the SBHBP. Allows for reinsurance for catastrophic costs for certain health insurance issuers. Defines a small employer for SBHBP purposes as an employer with 50 or fewer employees. Directs the Secretary and the Secretary of Labor to provide for the establishment of a national health pooling arrangement for eligible small employers under the SBHBP.
ESA Improvement Act of 2014 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to prohibit the Secretary of the Interior from adding a species to the list of endangered and threatened species: (1) if the Secretary has approved a State Protective Action (SPA) for such species, and (2) before the Secretary has made a final determination regarding approval of an SPA. Directs the Secretary to: (1) notify each state of the opportunity to submit an SPA prior to proposing to add a species to the federal list of endangered and threatened species, and (2) provide guidance to states regarding the preparation of an SPA. Establishes a process for approving or disapproving a proposed SPA. Requires the Secretary to review the implementation and effectiveness of an SPA every five years and, if necessary, provide guidance on improvements or revisions that are required to maintain the Secretary's approval of the SPA. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) revoke approval of an SPA and propose adding a species to the federal list if the state has failed to implement the SPA or the SPA failed to make measurable progress toward meeting the recovery criteria for the species, and (2) terminate the effectiveness of an approved SPA if the recovery criteria for the species have been met.
Health Care for Young Adults Act of 2005 - Amends titles XIX (Medicaid) and XXI to permit states to provide Medicaid and SCHIP coverage of low-income youth up to age 23. Provides for additional SCHIP allotments for the provision of coverage to optional young adults. Amends SSA title XI to modify Medicaid caps for territories. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to provide for grants to states in order to enable them to implement expansions of eligibility for children and young adults in their state Medicaid and state SCHIP plans.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on September 23, 2013. Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2013 - Authorizes specified appropriations for the period October 1-December 31, 2013, to pay a monthly assistance allowance to a veteran with a disability invited by the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) to compete for a slot on, or selected for, the Paralympic Team for any month in which the veteran is training or competing in any event sanctioned by the USOC, or who is residing at a USOC, training center. Extends for the same period the authorization for grants to USOC for an integrated adaptive sports program for disabled veterans and disabled members of the Armed Forces. Applies the same grant authorization, in the same manner and to the same degree as to the USOC, to: (1) the American Samoa National Olympic Committee, (2) the Guam National Olympic Committee, (3) the Comite Olimpico de Puerto Rico, and (4) appropriate entities representing the interests of the Northern Mariana Islands and the United States Virgin Islands. Extends through FY2014 a veteran's liability for copayments of $10 for every day the veteran receives hospital care and of $5 for every day he or she receives nursing home care. Extends through FY2014 the right of the United States to recover or collect from a third party reasonable charges for care or services for a non-service-connected disability of a veteran with a service-connected disability who is entitled to care under a health-plan contract. Extends through FY2014 the authority of the Secretary of Labor for homeless veterans reintegration programs, and of the same Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to contract for referral and counseling services for veterans at risk of homelessness who are transitioning from certain institutions. Extends through FY2015 the authorization of appropriations for comprehensive service programs for homeless veterans. Extends through FY2014 the availability of funds for: (1) financial assistance for supportive services for very low-income veteran families in permanent housing, and (2) the grant program for homeless veterans with special needs. Extends through FY2014 specially adapted housing assistance for a disabled veteran whose permanent and total service-connected disability causes difficulty with ambulating. Limits to 30 applications during FY2014 approval of such assistance for any such disabled veterans who served in the Armed Forces on or after September 11, 2001. Extends through FY2014 the authority to calculate, for liquidation purposes, the net value of real property securing a defaulted guaranteed housing or small business loan to a veteran. Amends the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 to extend through FY2014 the pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing assistance to veterans receiving regular or intensive mental health services and other intensive health care services in order to obtain child care while receiving such services. Amends part D of title IV (TANF) of the Social Security Act to revive for a specified 180-day period the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) with VA information for comparison with information in the National Directory of New Hires about individuals applying for or receiving needs-based veterans pension benefits, parents' dependency and indemnity compensation, veterans health care services, or compensation based on 100 unemployability. Authorizes for the same 180-day period the authority of the VA Secretary to terminate, deny, suspend, or reduce any of such veterans benefits or services, with respect to an applicant or recipient under age 65, by reason of information obtained from the HHS Secretary, but only if the VA Secretary takes appropriate steps to verify independently information relating to the individual's employment and employment income. Makes this Act effective on October 1, 2013, except for the authorization of appropriations for monthly assistance for disabled veterans invited to compete for a slot on, or selected for, the Paralympic Team, which shall be effective September 30, 2013. Deems ratified any VA actions undertaken before enactment of this Act under the authorities extended by this Act, if this Act is not enacted on or before September 30, 2013.
Strategic Withdrawal of Agencies for Meaningful Placement Act of 2018 or the SWAMP Act This bill: (1) repeals the requirement that all offices attached to the seat of government be exercised in the District of Columbia, and not elsewhere. And (2) prohibits new construction or major renovation of certain executive agency headquarters in the Washington Metropolitan area. The General Services Administration (GSA) must: (1) establish a process to allow an executive agency to request GSA to issue a solicitation for the relocation of its headquarters. (2) allow any state to bid for the relocation of the agency's headquarters. And (3) in consultation with the executive agency, select a state for the relocation of the agency's headquarters using a competitive bidding procedure based on certain considerations.
Reducing Barriers to Veterans' Benefits Act - Presumes a service connection, for veterans' benefits purposes, for diagnosed hearing loss, tinnitus, or both, for veterans who, during active military service: (1) were assigned to a military occupational specialty in which the veterans were likely to be exposed to a level of acoustic trauma sufficient to result in permanent hearing loss, tinnitus, or both. Or (2) served in combat against a hostile force during a period of hostilities. Directs the Secretary of each military department to ensure that each member of the Armed Forces under their jurisdiction receives an audiometric test at the 8000 Hz frequency to evaluate the hearing of such member during the 90-day period before the member is discharged, separated, or retired.
Amends the Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act of 1990 to revise the special pay adjustments for Federal law enforcement officers in specified consolidated metropolitan statistical areas. Includes Capitol Police as law enforcement officers under such Act. Directs the Office of Personnel Management: (1) to study and report to Congress on the need for, and the potential benefits to be derived from, the establishment of a separate pay, evaluation, and promotion system for Federal law enforcement officers. (2) if it considers it to be appropriate, to implement a demonstration project to determine whether a separate system for such officers would result in improved Federal personnel management. And (3) to submit to Congress its evaluation of the system tested under the demonstration project and recommendations as to whether that system should be continued or extended to other Federal law enforcement officers. Eliminates the limitation on the aggregate of basic pay and premium pay with respect to availability pay for Federal criminal investigators.
Domestic Violence Screening and Treatment Act of 2002 - Amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act (SSA) to require that health benefits provided include coverage of domestic violence screening and treatment. Amends Federal civil service law to require the Office of Personal Management to require all contracted carriers of health coverage for Federal employees to include coverage for domestic violence screening and treatment services. Amends SSA title V to require States to set aside a reasonable portion of maternal and child health services block grant funds to provide for domestic violence screening and treatment services. Authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services, with respect to such funds retained for certain projects, to provide preference to State applicants who include training of providers in how to screen for, and treat, domestic violence. Requires the Secretary to allot funds to States to provide for a separate program for domestic violence screening and treatment.
Poll Tape Transparency Act of 2008 - Amends the Help America Vote Act with respect to the requirements for each voting system used in a federal election. Requires the appropriate election official, upon the closing of the polls at each polling place, and under the observation of the certified tabulation observers admitted to the polling place, to: (1) announce the vote orally. (2) post a copy of the poll tape reflecting the totals from each voting machine in the polling place upon which votes were cast. (3) prepare and post a statement of the total number of individuals who appeared at the polling place to cast ballots. And (4) display by noon the following day, at a prominent public location, a copy of each poll tape and statement. Requires display of such information also on the official public websites of the applicable local election official and chief state election official. Specifies similar treatment of ballots cast at early voting sites, absentee ballots, and the daily count of provisional ballots.
Access to Inpatient Rehabilitation Therapy Act of 2017 This bill amends title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to require the Centers for Medicare amp, Medicaid Services,nbsp, for purposes ofnbsp. Determining whether inpatient rehabilitation-facility services are reasonable and necessary under Medicare,nbsp. To include recreational-therapy services among the therapeutic modalities that constitute an intensive rehabilitation-therapy program.
Renewable Fuels Pipelines Act of 2009 - Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to allow federally-guaranteed loans for renewable fuel pipeline construction without regard to whether an appropriation for the cost has been made. Includes ethanol and biodiesel as renewable fuel. Allows a maximum guarantee by the Secretary of Energy of 90 of the pipeline project cost and more than one guarantee for a project . Sets forth factors to be considered in guarantee determinations, including volume and quality of fuel, size of markets served, experience of the entity working with renewable fuel, and associated storage, production, and terminal facilities. Authorizes the Secretary to evaluate a project to assemble a renewable fuel pipeline as a complete project and, as a result of the size and nature of the project, to make a guarantee for an initial loan at a preliminary stage in the loan approval process for the complete project.
Uranium Resources Stewardship Act or URSA - Amends the Mineral Leasing Act to: (1) withdraw all federal lands permanently from location and entry for uranium, and (2) prescribe a uranium leasing program for such lands.
Amends the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to make permanent resident aliens under 19 years old eligible for Medicaid. Extends the refugee and asylee eligibility period for Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income (SSI). Makes qualified aliens eligible for SSI benefits who: (1) became blind or disabled after US admission. Or (2) were under 18 years old at, and blind or disabled prior to, US admission. Exempts such aliens from: (1) attribution of sponsor income and repayment requirements. And (2) the five-year ineligibility period for Federal means-tested public benefits. Makes permanent resident aliens who are at least 76 years old eligible for SSI benefits. Exempts such aliens from sponsor repayment requirements.
Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2008 - Amends the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to direct the President, acting through the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), to: (1) modernize and implement the integrated US public alert and warning system to ensure that the President can alert governmental authorities and the civilian population in areas endangered by disasters under all conditions. (2) assign to the National Continuity Programs Directorate responsibility for advising on system modernization and implementation. (3) establish or adopt common alerting and warning protocols, standards, terminology, and operating procedures. (4) include in such system the capability to adapt the distribution and content of communications on the basis of geographic location, risks, or personal user preferences and to alert individuals with disabilities or limited English proficiency. And (5) ensure the conduct of training, tests, and exercises. Requires the system to: (1) incorporate multiple communications technologies. (2) be designed to adapt to and incorporate future technologies for communicating directly with the public. (3) be designed to provide alerts to the largest portion of the affected population feasible and improve the ability of remote areas to receive alerts. (4) promote local and regional partnerships to enhance community preparedness and response. And (5) provide redundant alert mechanisms. Requires the Director to conduct pilot programs to demonstrate the feasibility of using a variety of methods for achieving system requirements.
Requires the Attorney General, in carrying out the program, to: (1) make and track grants. And (2) provide for technical assistance and training, in addition to data collection and dissemination of relevant information, and general program administration. Directs the Attorney General to appoint or designate an Administrator to carry out the program. Sets forth initial grant and renewal requirements. Directs that a grant recipient (coalition) submit to the Attorney General a comprehensive plan for reducing violent juvenile crime that meets specified requirements, such as ensuring that: (1) heavy emphasis is placed on coordinated enforcement initiatives. (2) there is close collaboration between police and probation officers in the supervision of juvenile offenders. (3) a program is in place to trace all firearms seized from crime scenes or offenders in an effort to identify illegal gun traffickers. And (4) a program is in place to divert nonviolent juvenile offenders into substance or alcohol abuse treatment. Requires coalitions to establish a system to measure and report outcomes, devise a detailed model for measuring and evaluating success, and provide assurances that the plan will be evaluated regularly to assess progress in reducing violent juvenile crime. Directs the Attorney General to give priority to coalitions representing communities with demonstrated juvenile crime and drug abuse problems. Sets forth provisions regarding grant amounts, permitted use of funds, a Comptroller General report to Congress reviewing program effectiveness, and information collection and dissemination with respect to coalitions. Authorizes appropriations.
Amends the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants and contracts for research and public information projects to reduce the incidence of traumatic brain injury. Requires the National Institutes of Health's trauma research program to include the authority to award grants or contracts for basic and applied traumatic brain injury research. Authorizes grants to States for demonstration projects to improve access to health and other services regarding traumatic brain injury. Requires State establishment of an advisory board. Authorizes appropriations. Mandates a study concerning traumatic brain injuries and a national consensus conference on managing traumatic brain injury and rehabilitation. Authorizes appropriations.
Somalia Stabilization Act of 2013 - Expresses the sense of Congress that the United States should: (1) support the Somali Federal Government, regional administrations, federal units, and people in their efforts to consolidate political gains and develop credible and representative government systems and institutions. (2) support African-led regional efforts to improve security and stability in Somalia. (3) support the development of professional and regionally and ethnically representative Somali security forces. (4) provide humanitarian assistance as needed while building a foundation for Somalia's development. And (5) carry out all diplomatic, economic, intelligence, military, and development activities in Somalia within the context of a comprehensive strategy coordinated through an interagency process. Directs the President to submit to Congress a strategy to guide future US action in support of the government and people of Somalia to foster economic growth, counter armed threats to stability, and develop credible and representative government systems and institutions.
Acquisition Savings Reform Act of 2011 - Directs the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council to amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) to revise certain federal acquisition practices and procedures, including by: (1) requiring executive agency heads to use online reverse auction, or an equivalent method, in the procurement of commercial items above the simplified acquisition threshold. (2) requiring the consideration of Federal Strategic Sourcing Vehicles in the acquisition planning process. (3) authorizing contracting officers to waive contract closeout audits above the simplified acquisition purchase threshold based on risk assessments and to write off unreconciled balances on low risk contracts. (4) requiring executive agency heads to mandate that affordability be included as a requirement for major systems, research and development, and construction and architect-engineering acquisitions, prior to the approval of any acquisition plan exceeding $100 million. (5) requiring service contracts valued at more than $100 million to include provisions to achieve productivity improvements and cost efficiencies. And (6) assisting small businesses by paying their invoices as quickly as possible and before normal payment due dates established by contract. Requires the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy to develop a plan for reducing the use of time and materials and labor hour contracts. Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to: (1) identify on the OMB website a list of all Federal Strategic Source Vehicle contracts and agreements and awardees, and (2) develop a plan to achieve not less than $1 billion in measurable savings through Federal Strategic Sourcing Vehicles for FY2013-FY2016.
Revises basic educational assistance for veterans' survivors and dependents to: (1) eliminate the present 45 month cap on benefit payments and set an aggregate limit of $80,000. (2) extend from a dependent's 26th to 30th birthday the delimiting age for the use of such assistance. (3) increase the amount of such assistance for survivors and dependents pursuing certain types of education. And (4) authorize the provision of tutorial assistance to such individuals without charge to their educational assistance entitlement.
Revises the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP), with changes providing separating TSP participants with the same options for withdrawal.
ED 1.0 Act - Establishes a pilot program requiring the Administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to award six-year grants to four minority-serving educational institutions, enabling them to develop digital and wireless networks for online programs of study within the institutions. Gives grant priority to institutions serving counties: (1) that meet specified criteria of economic depression. (2) less than 18 of whose residents have a higher education, and (3) at least half of whose residents are minorities.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on September 9, 2016. Special Needs Trust Fairness and Medicaid Improvement Act This bill amends title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act with respect to the treatment of revocable trusts for the benefit of an individual for purposes of meeting income requirements for Medicaid coverage. The bill extends the supplemental needs trust exemption from treatment of a trust as resources available to the individual to supplemental needs trusts for Medicaid beneficiaries established by those beneficiaries. Medicaid coverage of tobacco cessation services shall continue to be provided for mothers of newborns through the first year after the child's birth. The Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services must report to the Congress on the use of the tobacco cessation service benefit under the Medicaid program. The bill eliminates federal financial participation regarding expenditures under Medicaid for drugs used for cosmetic purposes or hair growth, except where such drugs are medically necessary. The bill makes additional funding available to the Medicaid Improvement Fund for FY2021 and FY2022.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide that for purposes of determining estate tax the value of the taxable estate shall be determined by deducting from the value of the gross estate an amount equal to the value of any qualified historic property. Defines qualified historic property. Requires, among other things, that the historic property will be open to the public for a period of at least 20 years and will have reasonable admission fees.
Preventing Iran's Access to United States Dollars Act of 2016 This bill prohibits the President from issuing a license that permits a person to: conduct an offshore US dollar clearing system for transactions involving the government of Iran or an Iranian person, or provide US dollars for any offshore US dollar clearing system conducted by a foreign government or a foreign financial institution for transactions involving the government of Iran or an Iranian person. The Department of the Treasury shall report to Congress: a list of financial institutions operating or participating in an offshore US dollar clearing system that conducts transactions involving the government of Iran or an Iranian person, and an assessment of Treasury efforts to prevent such transactions. The President shall block and prohibit all transactions in property and property interests of any listed institution if the property and interests: (1) are in the United States, (2) come within the United States, or (3) are or come within the possession or control of a US person. The President may impose additional sanctions pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 is amended to subject to sanctions: (1) u-turn transactions , and (2) book transfers .
Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude contributions of any qualified conservation contribution or capital gain real property made for conservation purposes from the application of the special limitation on contributions of capital gain property and from the application of the five-year carryover limitation. Repeals specified property location restrictions on the estate tax exclusion for property subject to a qualified conservation easement.
Economic Growth and Stabilization Financing Demonstration Act 1994 - Prescribes guidelines under which the Secretary of Commerce may conduct demonstration programs in economically distressed communities to: (1) guarantee loans made by lending institutions to private parties, (2) pay interest rate subsidies, (3) implement an equity financing program. And (4) provide secondary market credit enhancements to pools of financial instruments related to economic growth and stabilization in such communities. Directs the Secretary to conduct performance evaluations and submit an annual status report to the Congress. Authorizes appropriations.
Animal Disease Risk Assessment, Prevention, and Control Act of 2001 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to submit a preliminary report to specified congressional committees concerning: (1) interagency measures to assess, prevent, and control the spread of foot and mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy in the United States, (2) related Federal information sources available to the public. And (3) the need for any additional legislative authority or product bans. Directs the Secretary to submit a final report to such committees that discusses such diseases' economic impacts, public and animal health risks, and related legislative authority or product bans.
Climate Change Investment Act of 2006 - Repeals provisions of the Internal Revenue Code allowing: (1) an election to expense the cost of certain liquid fuel processing refineries, (2) accelerated amortization of geological and geophysical expenditures, (3) a tax credit for enhanced oil recovery costs. (4) a tax credit for the production of low sulfur diesel fuel. (5) a tax credit for producing fuel from a nonconventional source. (6) a tax deduction for capital costs incurred in complying with certain sulfur regulations. (7) a tax deduction for intangible drilling and development costs for oil and gas wells and geothermal wells. And (8) tax deductions for certain oil and gas well expenditures. Allows a business-related tax credit for investment in a greenhouse gas intensity reduction project approved by the Secretary of Energy.
Recovery Through Building Renovation Act of 2010 - Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to authorize the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to provide credit support for debt or repayment obligations incurred in connection with financing the installation of efficiency or renewable energy measures in commercial, industrial, municipal, university, school, and hospital facilities. Directs the Secretary to establish guidelines for such credit support, including: (1) standards for assessing, and threshold levels for, the expected energy savings, (2) examples of financing mechanisms that qualify as efficiency obligations, (3) eligibility criteria. And (4) lien priority requirements. Requires the Secretary to prioritize: (1) the maximization of energy savings with the available credit support funding, (2) the establishment of a clear application and approval process. And (3) the distribution of projects receiving credit support across states or geographical regions. Directs the Secretary to: (1) establish an initial minimum energy savings requirement for eligible projects that results in the greatest amount of energy savings on a per project basis. And (2) annually adjust that requirement and any other credit support terms deemed necessary taking into account market conditions and available funding. Limits credit support to 90 of the principal amount of the efficiency obligation or $10 million for any single project. Authorizes the Secretary to charge reasonable fees for such credit support. Directs the Secretary to establish: (1) the MUSH Building Efficiency Program to provide grants to state revolving funds to finance energy efficiency retrofit projects for buildings that are owned or controlled by a municipality, a state or public university, a school or school district, or a publicly owned hospital. And (2) a program that provides grants to state or tribal governments to support property assessed clean energy bonds and other tax assessment-based financing mechanisms to support building retrofit projects expected to produce significant energy efficiency gains.
Directs the Election Assistance Commission to make a grant to each participating state and unit of local government for carrying out a program to make backup paper ballots available in the case of the failure of a voting system or voting equipment or some other emergency situation in the administration of the regularly scheduled federal general election held in November 2008.
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Security Authorization Act of 2011 - Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to require the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to maintain regulations to protect chemical facilities against terrorism, which shall include: (1) risk-based performance standards for facility security, (2) requirements for facility security vulnerability assessments, and (3) requirements for the development and implementation of facility site security plans. Applies such regulations to any chemical facility that the Secretary determines presents a high level of security risk with respect to acts of terrorism, with the exception of Department of Defense (DOD) and Department of Energy (DOE) facilities, facilities regulated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), port security facilities, public water systems, and treatment works. Requires such regulations to provide that each facility be permitted to select layered security measures that, in combination, appropriately address the vulnerability assessment and risk-based performance standards. Directs the Secretary to approve or disapprove each assessment and site security plan. Prohibits the Secretary from disapproving such a plan based on the presence or absence of a particular security measure, but allows the Secretary to disapprove a plan that fails to satisfy performance standards. Requires the Secretary to: (1) approve or disapprove a security vulnerability assessment or site security plan after publishing final regulations and no later than 180 days after receipt, and (2) provide to a facility owner or operator no later than 14 days after such disapproval written notification that includes a clear explanation of deficiencies and that requires the owner or operator to make revisions to address deficiencies by an appropriate date. Authorizes the Secretary to approve an alterative security program established by a private sector entity or federal, state, or local authority, or established under another applicable law, if the Secretary determines that the requirements of such program meet the requirements of this Act. Requires the Secretary to include in any personnel surety regulation issued pursuant to this Act provisions on how a facility owner or operator can meet regulation requirements by submitting: (1) information on an employee or individual holding a valid transportation security card, (2) an alternate security background check conducted by a private sector entity, and (3) an alternate security background check conducted under another applicable law. Directs the Secretary to provide, upon request, to any owner or operator of a covered chemical facility that is a small business concern technical assistance to prepare a security vulnerability assessment or site security plan. Requires information developed pursuant to this Act to be protected from public disclosure but permits information sharing with state and local government officials under specified circumstances. Directs the Secretary to audit and inspect chemical facilities and order compliance with such regulations. Imposes civil penalties for violations. Authorizes the Secretary to issue an order for a facility not in compliance to cease operations. Requires the Secretary to report annually on: (1) an estimate of the potential jobs created or lost within the private sector as a result of the regulations required under this Act, and (2) information on feedback from facility owners and operators about how the regulations could be revised to spur potential job creation or stem job losses. Terminates this Act on September 30, 2018. Authorizes appropriations for FY2012-FY2018. Repeals similar provisions of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2007. Directs the Secretary to report on the extent to which the security requirements added by this Act have been harmonized with security requirements for facilities regulated under existing port security provisions.
Open Our Democracy Act of 2014 - Requires all candidates for election to the House of Representatives to run in a single open primary, regardless of political party preference. Limits the ensuing general election to the two candidates receiving the greatest number of votes in the single open primary. Gives candidates the option, at the time of filing to run for office, to declare a political party preference, which does not constitute or imply endorsement of the candidate by the party designated. Treats the general election day in the same manner as a legal public holiday for purposes of federal employment. Expresses the sense of Congress that private employers should give their employees a day off on the general election day in November 2016 and each even-numbered year thereafter to enable them to cast votes in elections held on that day. Requires the Comptroller General (GAO) to study the feasibility and desirability of enacting national standards and criteria for congressional redistricting.
Urges the President to enter into negotiations with the Russian Federation for the Federation's development of a plan to restructure its nuclear complex in order to meet changes in Russian nuclear security requirements by 2010. Directs the Secretary to carry out a program to encourage students in the United States and the Russian Federation to pursue careers in nonproliferation. Authorizes appropriations. Expresses the sense of Congress that availability of Initiative funds after FY 2001 should be contingent upon: (1) demonstrable progress in enhancing and accelerating Initiative activities. And (2) the development and implementation of Russia's nuclear restructuring plan. Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) there should be a National Coordinator for Nonproliferation Matters to coordinate various Federal nonproliferation programs, including the Initiative. And (2) such Coordinator position should be similar to the Coordinator position filled by the President under the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996.
Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act of 1997 - Amends the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 to revise length limitations on federally-assisted highways to prohibit States from allowing the operation on highways of the Interstate System and the National Highway System of any trailer, semi-trailer, container, or other cargo-carrying unit that is longer than 53 feet, with specified exceptions. Amends Federal highway law to terminate all current State (grandfathered) exceptions to Interstate vehicle weight limits, unless the vehicle or combination involved is on a list of vehicles and combinations which could be lawfully operated in the State on July 1, 1956. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to issue regulations, in order to promote conformity with Interstate weight limits for the safety of all motorists, defining the term vehicles and loads which cannot be easily dismantled or divided , which shall apply to all loads operating on the National Highway System. Sets forth gross vehicle weight and axle loading limits on non-Interstate highways on the National Highway System.
Just and Lasting Peace in Sudan Act of 2008 - Prohibits sanctions imposed against the government of Sudan from being lifted until the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that the following conditions have been met for at least one year: (1) the government of Sudan (government) implements the Comprehensive Peace Agreement and the Darfur Peace Agreement. (2) the Abyei Boundary Commission recommendations are implemented and oil revenue shares are paid retroactively. (3) the government hands over to the International Criminal Court (ICC) all indicted individuals. (4) the government ends its atrocities against innocent civilians in Darfur and other parts of Sudan. (5) the government allows the deployment of United Nations African Union Mission in Darfur forces and allows unhindered access to humanitarian workers, (6) the government ends its terrorist ties. And (7) senior government officials are held accountable for crimes committed in the Nuba, South Sudan, Southern Blue Nile, and Eastern Sudan, and for their support for Osama bin Laden and other terrorist groups. Expresses the sense of Congress that the US government should not normalize relations with Sudan until such conditions have been implemented for at least one year.
Vaccine Accessibility for Children and Seniors Act of 2005 or the VACS Act of 2005 - Establishes an exclusive Federal cause of action for claims arising from a vaccine-related injury or death associated with the administration of a vaccine after October 1, 1988, except for a compensation proceeding under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program . Preempts all State actions for damages arising from such an injury or death. Defines vaccine to include any preservative, ingredient, or component of a vaccine. Requires a district court to suspend an attorney from the practice of law in such court for one year if the attorney has violated the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure requiring the attorney to certify the validity of claims filed in connection with a vaccine suit three times during that attorney's career. Allows the court to suspend the attorney for any additional period that the court considers appropriate. Amends Federal vaccine civil trial procedures to insert a new first stage to determine whether competent and reliable scientific evidence demonstrates that the plaintiff's alleged vaccine-related injury or death was caused in fact by the vaccine. Requires the dismissal with prejudice or removal to a Federal court of all pending State vaccine cases. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Attorney General to jointly submit a report to Congress concerning recommendations to ensure that injured patients with legitimate claims are rapidly and appropriately compensated through the Program in a less adversarial manner.
Hurricane and Tornado Mitigation Investment Act of 2007 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow individual and business taxpayers in certain states a tax credit for 25 of their qualified hurricane and tornado mitigation property expenditures up to $5,000 for any taxable year. Defines such expenditures as expenditures in a dwelling unit to improve the strength of a roof deck attachment, create a secondary water barrier, improve the durability of a roof covering, brace gable-end walls, reinforce the connections between a roof and supporting wall, protect against windborne debris, or protect exterior doors and garages.
Flexible Refinancing for American Families Act of 2012 - Directs the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation each to carry out a one-year program providing for the refinancing of qualified single-family housing mortgages it owns through a refinancing mortgage having a 50-year term in accordance with this Act and the policies and procedures that the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency shall establish. Permits the mortgagee, however, upon written 90-day advance notice to the mortgagor, to require payment in full of a 50-year mortgage only 30 years after the beginning of its amortization. Defines a qualified mortgage as one, regardless of whether the mortgagor is current on payments due or in default, that: (1) is an existing first mortgage for purchase of, or refinancing another first mortgage on, a one- to four-family dwelling, including a condominium or a share in a cooperative ownership housing association, that is occupied by the mortgagor as principal residence, (2) is owned or guaranteed by the particular GSE. And (3) was originated on or before enactment of this Act. Specifies the terms and conditions of a refinancing mortgage, including a 50-year term to maturity and a prohibition on borrower fees. Requires waiver or forgiveness of all fees and penalties related to any default or delinquency on the original mortgage. Requires a GSE to pay a fee of up to $1,000 to the servicer of a qualified mortgage refinance. Prohibits any requirement of a property appraisal.
Long Island Sound Stewardship Act of 2004 - Establishes the Long Island Sound Stewardship System Region in Connecticut and New York. Establishes the Long Island Sound Stewardship Coordinating Committee to evaluate applications: (1) from owners or other controlling parties to have qualifying land within the Region designated as stewardship sites for purposes of awarding preservation funds. And (2) from government or nonprofit organizations qualified to hold conservation easements for funds to purchase land or development rights for stewardship sites. Requires the Committee to develop and publish a management plan that describes the current status of Long Island Sound, the Committee's role in protecting it, and details of the stewardship site designation program.
Reduce Expenditures in Nuclear Infrastructure Now Act or the REIN-IN Act - Prohibits the obligation or expenditure of funds authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Defense (DOD) for FY2014-FY2023: (1) for the research, development, test, and evaluation (RDTamp, E) or procurement of a long-range penetrating bomber aircraft, (2) to procure an SSBN-X submarine, or (3) for the RDTamp. E or procurement of a new intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM). Prohibits the obligation or expenditure of funds authorized to be appropriated for FY2014 or thereafter for DOD or the Department of Energy (DOE): (1) to make the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft capable of carrying nuclear weapons. (2) until the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy jointly certify that the total cost of the B61 life extension program has been reduced to not more than $5 billion, (3) for the W78 life extension program, (4) for the mixed oxide fuel fabrication facility project. (5) to replace the chemistry and metallurgy research building at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico. Or (6) for the uranium processing facility at the Y-12 National Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Prohibits Navy forces, beginning in FY2020, from including more than eight operational ballistic-missile submarines available for deployment. Prohibits the use of DOD funds for FY2014 or thereafter: (1) to maintain more than 250 submarine-launched ballistic missiles. (2) to maintain more than 150 intercontiental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) on a 24-hour, high alert status. Or (3) for the medium extended air defense system. Requires initial and annual reports from the Secretaries of Defense and Energy outlining their respective plans to carry out the requirements of this Act. Directs the President to submit to Congress an annual report containing a comprehensive accounting by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) of the amounts obligated or expended by the federal government for each nuclear weapon and related nuclear program during the fiscal year covered by the report for the life cycle of such weapon or program.
Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty Preservation Act of 2017 This bill states US policy that: (1) Russian actions in violation of the the Treaty between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Elimination of their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles constitute a material breach, (2) the United States is legally entitled to suspend the treaty, and (3) the United States should take certain actions to bring Russia into compliance. The bill authorizes additional appropriations for: (1) development of active defenses to counter ground launched missile systems, (2) counterforce and countervailing capabilities, and (3) missile system transfers to allied countries. The Department of Defense shall: (1) establish a program to develop a dual-capable road-mobile ground-launched cruise missile system with a range of 500 to 5,500 kilometers. (2) report on the feasibility of modifying the tomahawk, standard missile-3, standard missile-6, long-range stand off cruise missile, and Army tactical missile for ground-launch with such range. And (3) report on the AEGIS Ashore sites with anti-air warfare capability necessary in Asia and Europe to defend US forces and allies from Russian ground launched missile systems. The Director of National Intelligence, every 90 days for five years, shall determine whether Russia has flight tested, produced, or possesses a system that is inconsistent with the treaty and that has reached initial operational capability and is, or is about to be, deployed. No funds may be obligated or expended to extend the New START Treaty after 2021, permit Russian flights over the United States or US allies pursuant to the Open Skies Treaty, permit the approval of new implementation decisions through the Open Skies Consultative Commission, or approve any license to export an item or technology to a Russian person or entity unless the President certifies that Russia has eliminated all missiles that are in violation of, or inconsistent with, the INF treaty. The Department of State shall conduct a review of Russia's RS-26 ballistic missile system. Upon a determination that Russia has flight-tested, produced, or is in possession of certain missiles, the President shall suspend the application of the INF treaty to the United States and notify the other state parties to the treaty of Russia's material breach of, and the US decision to suspend, the treaty.
Broadband Regulatory Parity Act of 2002 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to require the Federal Communications Commission to prescribe regulations to ensure that: (1) all broadband services and broadband access services are subject to the same regulatory requirements. (2) all providers of such services are subject to the same regulatory requirements with respect to such services and the facilities and equipment used to provide such services. And (3) the above requirements are met without increasing current regulatory requirements with respect to such services, facilities, or equipment. Prohibits such services and related facilities and equipment from being subject to the jurisdiction of any State. Requires each incumbent local exchange carrier to provide all Internet service providers with the telecommunications necessary for the provision of broadband access service to subscribers at just and reasonable rates.
United States-Panama Security Act of 1997 - Bars US assistance to Panama during any period in which a defense site or military installation located in Panama that was at any time part of a site or installation built or formerly operated by the United States has been conveyed by the Government of Panama to any foreign government-owned entity. Directs the President to instruct the US representatives to the international financial institutions to oppose any loans or other assistance to Panama during any such period. Requires the President to report to the Congress on how Hutchison Whampoa, a Chinese firm with ties to the Chinese Government, was selected to receive a grant for management control of the Panamanian ports of Balboa and San Cristobal. Directs the Secretary of Defense to report to the Congress on: (1) the extent to which the control of such ports by such firm poses a threat to US security. And (2) how US strategic interests with respect to the Panama Canal will continue to be protected after the Government of Panama assumes sole responsibility for the defense of the Canal and becomes the only entity entitled to have military forces, defense sites, or military installations in Panama after December 31, 1999. Requires: (1) the Director of Central Intelligence to report annually to the Congress on the intelligence activities of China against or affecting US interests in Panama. And (2) the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy to report to the Congress on the utility of maintaining a military presence in Panama for interdicting illegal drugs. Authorizes and directs the President to confer with the Government of Panama to renegotiate the terms of the Panama Canal Treaty and the Treaty Concerning the Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal or to negotiate a new agreement to supersede such treaties. Expresses the sense of the Congress that any negotiations should include: (1) a ban on foreign government investment in or management of the Canal and related projects. (2) the right to a continued US military presence in Panama and a continued presence to interdict and eradicate illegal drug trafficking through Panama. And (3) the right to control or prohibit the use of the Canal by hostile powers, terrorist states, or criminal groups by redefining the terms of the 1977 Treaty Concerning the Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal.
Prohibits any government from imposing a substantial burden on the religious exercise of a person residing in or confined to an institution, as defined in the Civil Rights of Institutionalized Persons Act, even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability, unless the government demonstrates that imposition of the burden on that person: (1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest. And (2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to amend or repeal the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 .
Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to define delivery sale of a tobacco product as any sale of cigarettes or a smokeless tobacco product to a consumer if: (1) the consumer submits the purchase order by means of a telephone or other method of voice transmission, the mail, or the Internet or other online service, or the seller is otherwise not in the buyer's physical presence when the purchase request or order is made. Or (2) the cigarettes or smokeless tobacco product is delivered by use of a common carrier, private delivery service, or the mail, or the seller is not in the buyer's physical presence when the buyer obtains personal possession of the delivered cigarettes or smokeless tobacco product. Makes the personal use exemption from tobacco import requirements inapplicable to cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products sold in connection with a delivery sale. Allows states access to copies of Customs Service certifications required for cigarette imports. Permits any tobacco product, cigarette papers, or tube found in violation of the Act to be forfeited for destruction to any state in which it is found. Authorizes persons who hold permits under the Internal Revenue Code concerning tobacco products, cigarette papers, and tubes to bring an action in the US district courts against any person, other than a state, local, or tribal government, to prevent and restrain violations of the Act. Authorizes state and local governments to bring civil actions for prevention or restraint against persons who violate the Act. Subjects smokeless tobacco products to the same entry requirements and enforcement mechanisms as apply to certain cigarettes under the Act. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to impose civil penalties against persons for relanding, except for personal use, tobacco products sold in a delivery sale.
Disclosure. And Encouragement of Verification, Innovation, Cleaning, and Efficiency Act of 2017 or the DEVICE Act of 2017 This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require medical device manufacturers to notify the Food and Drug Administration (FDA): (1) before making changes to the design or reprocessing instructions of a device, and (2) no more than five days after widely disseminating to health care providers in a foreign country communications regarding changes to the design or reprocessing instructions of a device or regarding a safety concern about a device. A device may not be sold if the manufacturer violates these notification requirements. Rapid assessment tests intended to ensure the proper reprocessing of reusable medical devices are defined as medical devices. The FDA must publish a list of the types of rapid assessment tests for which premarket notification must include validated instructions for use and validation data.
Full Employment Opportunity and Infrastructure Improvement Act of 1994 - Amends the Job Training Partnership Act to establish a public works and public service job training program. Sets forth provisions for allotment to States, allocation to service delivery areas, program conduct and project requirements, individual eligibility, wages, benefits, and supportive services, waiver of education requirements, and linkages to other programs. Requires that private industry councils include representatives of the State apprenticeship council.
Pet and Women Safety Act of 2017 This bill amends the federal criminal code to broaden the definition of stalking to include conduct that causes a person to experience a reasonable fear of death or serious bodily injury to his or her pet. Additionally, an interstate violation of a protection order includes interstate travel with the intent to violate a protection order against a pet that is included within the scope of the protection order. The bill specifies the applicable criminal penalty8212. A prison term of up to five years, a fine, or both8212. For a person who commits an interstate violation of a protection order against a pet. With respect to a defendant who commits a domestic violence offense or an interstate violation of a protection order, mandatory restitution in the quot, full amount of victim's lossesquot. Includes costs incurred for veterinary services related to the pet. The bill directs the Department of Agriculture to award grants for shelter and housing assistance and support services for domestic violence victims with pets. Finally, it expresses the sense of Congress that states should include, in domestic violence protection orders, protections against violence or threats against a person's pet.
Apprenticeship and Jobs Training Act of 2014 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to allow employers a business-related tax credit for up to $5,000 for the training of a qualified individual in a qualified apprenticeship program. Defines a qualified individual as an individual who: (1) is an apprentice participating in anbsp, qualified apprenticeship program, (2)nbsp. Has been employed in such a program for a period of at least seven months that ends within the taxable year, and (3) is not a highly compensated employee or a seasonal worker. Defines a qualified apprenticeship program as a program that: (1) provides qualified individuals with on-the-job training and instruction for a qualified occupation. (2) is registered with the Office of Apprenticeship of the Department of Labor. And (3) maintains records relating to the qualified individual. Allows a premature distribution, without penalty, fromnbsp. A tax-qualified retirement plan to an employee who is serving as a mentor. Defines a quot, mentorquot, as a working individual who: (1) has attained age 55. (2) works reduced hours and engages in mentoring activities for at least 20 of such hours. And (3) is responsible for the training and education of employees or students in an area of expertise for which such individual has a professional credential, certificate, or degree.
Securing Affordable Vocational and Collegiate Education (SAVE) Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) allow a limited deduction for amounts paid to any qualified State tuition program. And (2) provide that distributions from such programs used to pay qualified higher education expenses shall not be included in gross income.
Child Care Lending Pilot Act of 2003 - Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to allow the proceeds of loans made through the Small Business Administration (SBA) to local development companies for plant acquisition, construction, or expansion to be used to assist small, nonprofit child care businesses, provided that: (1) the loan will be used for a sound business purpose approved by the SBA. And (2) each business receiving the assistance meets eligibility requirements applicable to for-profit businesses.
Regional Infrastructure Accelerator Act of 2017 This bill authorizes the Department of the Treasury to establish a regional infrastructure accelerator (RIA) program to provide initial and subsequent grants to RIAs to facilitate investment in, and long-term financing of, economically viable covered infrastructure projects. An quot, RIAquot. Is defined as a multi-jurisdictional organization dedicated to providing technical assistance, financing options, and resources for covered infrastructure projects within the represented jurisdictions. A quot, covered infrastructure projectquot. Is defined as a project sponsored by a state, local, or regional public entity that involves the construction, consolidation, alteration, or repair of rail, bus, or public transportation facilities or equipment, highway facilities , airports, port or marine facilities and equipment, pipelines, inland waterways, intermodal facilities and equipment, water treatment and solid waste disposal facilities, storm water management systems, dams and levees, and facilities or equipment for energy transmission, distribution, or storage. From applications received, Treasury shall select five RIAs from geographically diverse regions to receive initial grants. An RIA shall use such a grant to: assess regional approaches for advancing innovative investment in covered infrastructure projects. Develop strategies for transparency in the analysis of such projects to ensure protection of the public interest, for the bundling of smaller scale and rural projects into larger covered infrastructure projects to facilitate transactions and investments, and for reducing transaction costs associated with investments in such projects. Facilitate the creation of a catalog of covered infrastructure projects available for investment. And analyze and apply project procurement methods for covered infrastructure projects. Treasury shall review final reports submitted by RIAs and select four of them to receive subsequent grants. A selected RIA shall use such subsequent grant to make subgrants to public entities for costs associated with a covered infrastructure project.
Broadband Deployment and Competition Enhancement Act of 2001 - Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to prohibit subjecting an incumbent local exchange carrier (carrier) to common carrier regulation with respect to any optical fiber facility, or any technology of a similar facility, in the carrier's network that is used to provide service to residential customers and that is or was deployed where no outside telephone distribution plant previously existed, or from any structure or premise to a customer premise, if the facility is capable of providing advance service. Prohibits subjecting such a carrier to such regulation with respect to packet switching or successor technology or the resale of advanced service or high-speed Internet access service. Requires such carrier to provide: (1) collocation in its central offices with respect to equipment used in the provision of advanced service. And (2) advanced service to all of its customers in a State within five years after the enactment of this Act, making carriers that do not so comply subject to common carrier regulation thereafter. Prohibits requiring such a carrier to convert to a network element or combination of network elements any special access circuit being provided on June 1, 2001. Requires the Federal Communications Commission to identify in its regulations any requirements or obligations that result in different or disparate treatment among various types of providers of advanced service and high-speed Internet access service, or among different technologies used to provide such service.
Foreign Medical School Accountability Fairness Act of 2013 - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to eliminate the exemption of certain foreign medical schools from the prohibition on foreign medical schools participating in the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan program, unless: at least 60 of those enrolled in, and at least 60 of the graduates of, the foreign medical school during the preceding year were not citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of the United States or were not in the United States with the intention of becoming citizens or permanent residents. And at least 75 of students or graduates of the medical school located outside the United States or Canada who took the examinations administered by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates in the preceding year received a passing score. Preserves the Direct Loan eligibility of students who were enrolled at schools excepted from that prohibition on or before the date of this Act's enactment.
Federal Election Integrity Act of 2004 - Amends the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require any individual who desires to register or re-register to vote in an election for Federal office to provide the appropriate State election official with proof that the individual is a US citizen. Requires proof of citizenship in States without registration requirement and States permitting same day registration. Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to prohibit the appropriate State or local election official from: (1) providing a ballot for an election for Federal office to an individual who desires to vote in person unless the individual presents to the official a current and valid photo ID. Or (2) accepting any ballot of an individual voting by mail without a copy of a current photo ID.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on June 26, 2014. Assessing Progress in Haiti Act of 2014 - Expresses the sense of Congress that transparency, accountability, democracy, and good governance are integral factors in any congressional decision regarding US assistance, including assistance to Haiti. Directs the Secretary of State to report to Congress annually through December 31, 2017, on the status of post-earthquake recovery and development efforts in Haiti. Directs the Secretary, through the Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs, to coordinate and transmit to Congress a three-year Haiti strategy that: (1) identifies constraints to economic growth and to consolidation of democratic government institutions. (2) includes an action plan that outlines policy tools, technical assistance, and resources for addressing the highest-priority constraints. And (3) identifies specific steps and benchmarks to provide direct bilateral assistance to the government of Haiti.
Construction Quality Assurance Act of 2009 - Requires each solicitation by an executive agency for the procurement of construction in excess of $1 million to require each bidder to submit the name, business location, and nature of work of each subcontractor with whom such bidder will subcontract for work in excess of $100,000. Deems to be non-responsive, and prohibits consideration of, any bidder that fails to list such subcontractors. Prohibits a contractor from substituting another subcontractor for a listed subcontractor, permitting any subcontract to be voluntarily assigned or transferred, or subcontracting work for which the contractor listed itself, without the contracting officer's consent. Sets forth: (1) examples of good cause and procedures required for substitution requests. And (2) penalties for violations of such prohibitions, including suspension or debarment from federal contracts for multiple violations. Requires revisions to the Federal Acquisition Regulation to implement this Act.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Atmospheric and Satellite Program Authorization Act of 1993 - Title I: Authorization of Appropriations - Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary of Commerce for: (1) the National Weather Service, (2) atmospheric research. (3) national environmental data and information services and satellite observing systems. And (4) program support . Title II: Miscellaneous Provisions - Directs the Secretary to: (1) develop a strategic plan for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's environmental research laboratories. And (2) prepare a hydrological research and flood forecasting modernization report. Expresses the sense of the Congress that any transfers of National Weather Service field office employees necessitated by the National Implementation Plan for Modernization of the National Weather Service be carried out in a manner that will not degrade field services.
Strengthening the Transition and Reintegration of the National Guard and Reserves Act or STRONGR Act - Provides an additional 180-day period of military mental health care coverage for members of the reserves separated from service following active duty of more than 30 days in support of a contingency operation. Increases the amount of basic educational assistance under the Montgomery GI Bill for members of the Selected Reserve and reserve personnel supporting contingency operations. Entitles a federal employee who is a member of a reserve component to receive the difference in pay between military compensation and civilian compensation during periods of active duty exceeding 30 days. Directs the Secretary of the military department concerned to reimburse states or local governments for 50 of the civilian compensation paid by such governments to equalize military and civilian pay. Increases the reimbursement rate to 100 if active duty extends beyond nine months. Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish an active-duty reserve component employee credit for employers who provide compensation to employees on active duty.
Sportsmen's Bill of Rights Act - Requires Federal public land and water to be open to access and use for fishing and hunting except as limited by: (1) the State involved. Or (2) the responsible Federal agency for reasons of national security, public safety, or specific authorization. Allows such land to be closed only during the period in which the reasons for such closure exist. Amends the Federal Aid in Wildlife Restoration Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to cooperate with the Secretary of the Interior of Puerto Rico in wildlife-restoration projects. Prohibits funds made available to the Secretary for expenses in the administration and execution of wildlife-restoration projects under such Act and the Federal Aid in Fish Restoration Act from being used as a supplement to decreased funding for any other expense of the Secretary. Prohibits a Federal agency's action that may significantly diminish opportunities or access to engage in fishing or hunting on Federal public land or water until the agency prepares a detailed statement evaluating the action's effect on fishing and hunting. Provides for judicial review of such action. Provides for intervention by an interested person in a civil action relating to the use of Federal public land or water for fishing or hunting. Provides standing to seek declaratory or injunctive relief regarding the implementation of this Act for an individual licensed to engage in fishing or hunting, or an organization representing the interests of such individuals.
Bioweapons Control and Tracking Act of 2001 - Amends the Public Health Service Act to direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) establish and maintain a list of each biological agent and each toxin with potential to severely threaten public health and safety. (2) promulgate regulations establishing safety and security standards, procedures, restricted access, and registration requirements for listed agents and toxins, including traceability mechanisms. And (3) establish exemptions consistent with public safety. Imposes civil penalties for violations of these requirements.
Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to manage and implement the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, and to enter into an agreement with Arizona, California, and Nevada providing for the use of water from the Lower Colorado River for habitat creation and maintenance, in accordance with the Habitat Conservation Plan, Biological Assessment and Biological and Conference Opinion, Environmental Impact StatementEnvironmental Impact Report, Funding and Management Agreement, Implementing Agreement (Agreement). Permits any party to an agreement entered into with the United States pursuant to the Program to commence a civil action in US district court to enforce the agreement or to declare the rights and obligations of the parties under the program documents. Grants the district court jurisdiction over any such action.
Robert S. Walker and George E. Brown, Jr. Hydrogen Energy Act of 2001 - Amends the Spark M. Matsunaga Hydrogen Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1990 to revise its purposes to include: (1) research and demonstration activities leading to the use of hydrogen for commercial applications. And (2) the development of a hydrogen production methodology that minimizes adverse environmental impacts, including efficient and cost-effective production from renewable and nonrenewable resources. Repeals as a purpose the development of renewable energy resources as a primary source of energy for hydrogen production. Instructs the Secretary of Energy to: (1) report annually to Congress on programs and activities authorized under the Act. (2) conduct a hydrogen technology transfer program designed to accelerate wider application in foreign countries, increase the global market for hydrogen technologies, and foster global economic development without harmful environmental effects. And (3) enter into arrangements with the National Academy of Sciences to establish an advisory board to replace the current Hydrogen Technical Advisory Panel. Amends the Hydrogen Future Act of 1996 to repeal the program relating to the integration of fuel cells with hydrogen production systems.
Hedge Fund Transparency Act - Amends the Investment Company Act of 1940, Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the Internal Revenue Code to convert exceptions to the definition of an investment company into exemptions from mandatory registration as one. Exempts an investment company with assets, or assets under management, of at least $50 million from ordinary registration and filing requirements only if that company: (1) registers with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). (2) files with the SEC a specified annual electronic information form, made available to the public, concerning ownership structure, investors, primary accountant and broker, and current assets value. (3) maintains such books and records as the SEC may require. And (4) cooperates with any request for information or examination by the Section Requires any investment company meeting such exemption requirements to establish an anti-money laundering program, according to rules prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury, and report suspicious transactions. Requires such rules to require exempted investment companies to use risk-based due diligence policies, procedures, and controls reasonably designed to ascertain the identity of, and evaluate, any foreign person that supplies funds, or plans to supply funds, to be invested with the investment company's advice or assistance. Requires such rules also to require exempted investment companies to comply with the same requirements as other financial institutions for producing records requested by a federal regulator, particularly within 120 hours of receiving such a request.
International Statistical Information and Analysis Act of 1993 - Directs the Secretary of Commerce to prepare and submit to the Congress an annual report analyzing the progress being made by the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the Baltic states in establishing a free market economy. Requires the President to establish an interagency committee to be known as the International Statistical Assistance Coordinating Committee to: (1) determine priorities for providing training and other technical assistance to monitor economic performance in such countries through the collection and analysis of economic statistical data. (2) coordinate such assistance with assistance provided by international or multilateral organizations. And (3) provide for analysis by its constituent agencies of economic statistical data regarding such countries and for the dissemination of such analysis to US businesses and other interested parties. Requires US assistance that is provided to encourage the development of a free-market economic system in the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the Baltic states to include training and other technical assistance to develop capabilities to monitor economic performance through the collection and analysis of economic statistical data. Expresses the sense of the Congress that a specified amount of funds allocated for US assistance to encourage the development of free market systems in such countries be used for such training and assistance.
Prescription Drug Fairness for Seniors Act of 1998 - Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to furnish each Medicare beneficiary under title XVIII of the Social Security Act with a drug benefit card enabling the beneficiary to purchase covered outpatient prescription drugs listed on the Federal Supply Schedule from participating pharmacies at reduced prices.
United Nations Oil-for-Food Accountability Act of 2004 - Requires the withholding of certain FY 2005 and 2006 US contributions to the United Nations (UN) until the President certifies that the UN is cooperating in the investigation of the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program.
Amends federal veterans' benefits provisions to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in providing counseling and other mental health services to a veteran who has limited proficiency in English, to ensure that such services are available in both English and a language in which that veteran is proficient, if requested by the veteran. Requires such availability also for the family members of such a veteran. Requires the Secretary to implement a system by which persons with limited English proficiency can access services provided by the Department of Veterans consistent with, and without unduly burdening, the Department's fundamental mission. Requires a report from the Secretary to the congressional veterans' committees on the implementation by the Department's Veterans Health Administration of a specified directive to implement prohibitions on discrimination on the basis of national origin for persons with limited English proficiency in federally-conducted programs and activities and in federal financial-assisted programs.
Treatment of Children's Deformities Act of 1998 - Amends the Public Health Service Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), and the Internal Revenue Code to set standards requiring that group and individual health insurance coverage and group health plans provide coverage for treatment of a minor child's congenital or developmental deformity or disorder due to trauma, infection, tumor, or disease.
Prohibits the FCC, without specific authorization by Congress, from: (1) eliminating or reducing such minimum distance separations for third-adjacent channels. Or (2) extending the eligibility for low-power FM stations beyond those organizations and entities proposed in MM Docket No. 99-25. Invalidates any previously issued low-power FM station license that does not comply with such rule modifications. Directs the FCC to conduct an experimental program to test whether low- power FM stations will result in harmful interference to existing FM radio stations if such stations are not subject to the minimum distance separation requirements. Requires the FCC to: (1) publish test results and allow an opportunity for public comment. And (2) report test results and FCC recommendations on reducing or eliminating minimum distance standards to specified congressional committees.
Amends the Internal Revenue Code with respect to political organizations to establish a campaign contribution limitation scheme applicable to the campaign committee of a candidate for election to the House of Representatives. Provides that excess campaign contributions received by such an organization shall be included in its gross income. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 and Federal postal service law to condition the lowest unit charge for campaign ads upon a candidate's certification of compliance with such contribution limitation. Expresses the sense of the Congress that additional costs incurred by the United Postal Service in providing reduced rates of postage pursuant to this Act should be funded out of revenues attributable to this Act.
Small Business Lending to Entrepreneurs for Growth in Underserved Populations Act of 2011 or the Small Business Leg-Up Act of 2011 - Requires, upon the expiration of investment authority for the Small Business Lending Fund Program provided in the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, that all unobligated funds in the Small Business Lending Fund be transferred to the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund. Directs that all funds received in connection with certain purchases of preferred stock and other financial instruments pursuant to such authority be transferred to the CDFI Fund. Amends the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994 to direct the Administrator of the CDFI Fund to carry out a Small Business Capital Investment (SBCI) Program to continue making capital investments in eligible community development financial institutions in order to increase the availability of credit for small businesses. Requires that: (1) all funds the Administrator receives in connection with SBCI Program purchases be deposited in the CDFI Fund, and (2) the authority to make such capital investments continue so long as specified funding amounts are available. Allows eligible community development financial institutions to apply to receive a capital investment of up to 10 of total assets, or another appropriate percentage determined by the Administrator. Directs the Administrator, to the extent practicable and except as otherwise provided, to carry out the SBCI Program in the same manner as the Small Business Lending Fund Program.
Workplace Employee Stock Option Act of 2002 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to provide for the exclusion from gross income of certain stock purchased with payroll deductions through an employee stock purchase plan. Sets forth special rules with respect to the inclusion of nonresident aliens under the provisions of this Act. Allows certain employees to be excluded from purchasing stock options under this Act. Requires certain employers to submit information returns relating to the transfer of ownership of stock acquired by employees pursuant to certain stock options, and assesses penalties for failure to comply.
Family Living Wage Act - Amends Internal Revenue Code provisions governing the earned income tax credit to: (1) increase from $5,714 to $8,000 the amount of earned income subject to the credit, (2) establish the basic credit at 20 percent. And (3) permit an additional credit of five percent for each dependent school age child between age six and age 16 and ten percent for each preschool age child. Reduces the amount of the credit for taxpayers with adjusted gross income over $50,000. Indexes amounts relating to the credit beginning in 1995. Disallows application of the nonrefundable dependent care income tax credit with respect to a taxpayer's dependents under age 13, unless the child is physically or mentally incapable of self-care. Permits the credit with respect to handicapped children under age 16 only if the taxpayer elects not to include the child within the framework of the earned income credit. Repeals provisions of the Family Support Act of 1988 that revise the way in which the earned income credit is treated in the context of needs analysis for purposes of State plans for aid and services to needy families with children under title IV of the Social Security Act.
MedicareMedicaid Solvency Act - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to establish in the Treasury the Tobacco Product Health Care Cost Reimbursement Trust Fund. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) distribute amounts in the Fund to each Secretary responsible for the expenditure of Federal funds for that fiscal year under titles XXVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act or any other Federal program for the payment of health care costs for individuals with diseases attributable to the use of tobacco products. And (2) pay administrative expenses of the Fund. Requires each manufacturer of tobacco products to pay to the Fund an annual contribution based on the total amount of tobacco-related Federal health care costs in proportion to that manufacturer's share of the tobacco market.
Clean Slate for Kids Online Act of 2018 This bill amends the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 to require the operator of any website or online service directed to children: to provide notice on the website about how an individual over age 13, or the guardian of an individual over 13, can request the deletion of all personal information in the operator's possession collected when the individual was a child, to promptly delete, upon request, all personalnbsp, information in thenbsp. Operator's possession that was collected from or about the individual when the individual was a child, and tonbsp. Provide written confirmation of deletion. Delete means to remove personal information such that the information is not maintained in retrievable form and cannot be retrieved in the normal course of business. The bill allows a limited exception to the deletion requirement if the personal information collected from or about a child is necessary to respond to judicial process or to provide information to law enforcement agencies.
Firefighters Pay Fairness Act of 1994 - Amends Federal law to extend existing biweekly pay period and pay computation requirements to Federal fire fighters and employees of the judicial branch. Repeals the current exception from such requirements of employees on the Isthmus of Panama in the service of the Panama Canal Commission. States that, for fire fighters, the annual rate of basic pay shall be calculated on the basis of 26 administrative biweekly work periods of up to 106 hours each. Prescribes a formula for computing the basic biweekly pay of Federal employees who are not fire fighters but perform fire fighting duties. Requires compensation at time-and-a-half per hour for any hours worked in excess of 106 during a biweekly pay period by fire fighters subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Specifies limits on the payment of other premium pay to such fire fighters. Prescribes basic rates of pay for fire fighters: (1) promoted to a supervisory position. And (2) selected and assigned for training. Authorizes a Federal agency to pay cash awards of up to five percent of basic pay to fire fighters or other employees performing fire fighting duties who possess and make substantial use of special skills or certifications, including handling hazardous materials or certification as an emergency medical technician.
United States Armed Forces Protection Act of 1996 - States certain congressional findings and policy concerning the placement of US armed forces under United Nations (UN) operational or tactical control. Prohibits Department of Defense funds from being obligated or expended for activities of any element of the armed forces that is placed under UN operational or tactical control, unless: (1) the President, at least 15 days before UN control is to become effective , certifies to the Congress that such action is in the national security interests. Or (2) such placement is specifically authorized by law or is part of a North Atlantic Treaty Organization operation. Specifies information to be submitted with the President's certification, including: (1) information on the national security interests to be advanced. (2) the mission, size, and composition of the US forces involved. (3) the command and control relationship of the US forces with the UN command structure and with the US unified command for the region. (4) the exit strategy for, and withdrawal authority of, US forces. And (5) the anticipated monthly incremental cost of US participation and the percentage that such cost represents of the total anticipated monthly incremental costs of all nations expected to participate in the operation. Provides that this Act shall not apply to activities of the armed forces carried out as part of specified ongoing activities of the UN Preventive Deployment Force in Macedonia or the UN Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, and Western Sirmium in Croatia. Requires that members of the armed forces be informed of their unit's mission and their chain of command in any operation to which their unit is assigned. Prohibits US military personnel from being required to wear UN insignia except when such insignia is specifically authorized by law with respect to a particular UN operation.
Notch Fairness Act of 1996 - Amends title II (OASDI) of the Social Security Act to revise the formula for the computation of minimum old age insurance benefits for individuals who reached age 65 in or after 1979 and to whom applies the 15-year transition period for the changes in benefit computation rules enacted in the Social Security Amendments of 1977. Sets forth a schedule of additional benefit increases for such beneficiaries , with percentages declining from 55 percent to five percent and keyed to the year an individual became eligible for such benefits between 1979 and 1988. Requires actual dependency of a stepchild in order to receive a child's insurance benefit under OASDI. Repeals the benefit eligibility of a stepchild living with the stepparent but not dependent on the stepparent for at least half of his or her support. Terminates a child's insurance benefit based upon the work income of a stepparent six months after the month in which the Commissioner of Social Security receives formal notification of the divorce of such stepparent from the natural parent of the child. Prohibits payment of OASDI disability benefits if alcoholism or drug addiction would be a contributing factor material to the Commissioner's determination that such individual is disabled. Requires the payment of disability benefits to a representative payee if the Commissioner determines that a disabled individual also has an alcoholism or drug addition condition that prevents the individual from managing such benefits. Directs the Commissioner to refer an individual with such a condition to the appropriate State agency administering the plan for substance abuse treatment services under the Public Health Service Act. Amends title XVI (SSI) of the Social Security Act to make the same requirements with respect to SSI beneficiaries. Appropriates funds for FY 1997 and 1998 for supplemental funding of State and tribal alcohol and substance abuse treatment programs under the Public Health Service Act. Requires State or tribal governments receiving such funds to consider as a priority in their expenditure those activities relating to the treatment of the abuse of alcohol and other drugs.
Chesapeake Bay Environmental Education Pilot Program Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to direct the Secretary of Education to establish a Chesapeake Bay Environmental Education Grant Pilot Program of matching grants for developing, demonstrating, or disseminating information on practices, methods, or techniques relating to environmental education and training in the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Makes eligible for such grants public elementary or secondary schools and nonprofit environmental or educational organizations located in the District of Columbia, Delaware, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia, or West Virginia.
Improved Medical Decision Incentive Act of 2007 - Allows a state health department to approve best practices in a course of, or as a means of treatment for, a particular condition, illness, or procedure, as the qualifying standard of care for the state in order to take advantage of the differential rates of payment implemented under the Social Security Act and the private insurance incentive under this Act. Requires a state health department, among other conditions for state approval, to allow any duly constituted state medical society or medical speciality group to file with the state health department a course or means of treatment representing best practices for a particular condition, illness, or procedure. Requires any interstate health insurer providing health care coverage within a state with approved qualifying best practices to pay all provider charges for any service provided in accordance with such practices. Authorizes any such provider or specialty group to bring a civil action in an appropriate US district court to enjoin efforts by any health insurer to challenge or delay payment for services provided by the provider or a member of the specialty group in accordance with such best practices. Amends titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid) to provide for implementation of differential rates of payment for covered items and services that favor treatment consistent with qualifying best practices under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare Medicaid Services, to review annually and report to Congress on the efficacy of all qualifying best practices approved pursuant to this Act and, if applicable, any national best practices adopted pursuant to this Act. Requires the Secretary also to host an annual conference on best practices for all state health directors, any state medical societies and medical specialty groups that have filed best practices for state approval, and any health insurers and advocacy groups that have participated in any administrative proceeding to approve best practices.
This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on October 26, 2015. Improving Regulatory Transparency for New Medical Therapies Act This bill amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act to delay the effective date of approval of a drug, biological product, or animal drug for which the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends controls under the Controlled Substances Act until the Department of Justice (DOJ) issues a final interim rule for the drug. This delay also applies to conditional approval and indexing of animal drugs. This bill amends the Controlled Substances Act to require the DOJ to issue a final interim rule for a drug product recommended for controls by the FDA not later than 90 days after DOJ receives a recommendation for controls or the FDA approves the drug. The final interim rule is effective immediately. For purposes of submitting an application to extend a patent, a drug product recommended for controls is considered to be approved and have permission for commercial marketing and use on the date of FDA approval or the date an interim final rule is issued, whichever is later. Timelines are established for DOJ to either register an applicant to manufacture a controlled substance for a clinical trial or serve an order to show cause upon the applicant. This bill amends the Controlled Substances Import and Export Act to allow exported controlled substances to be re-exported within the European Economic Area.
Preventing Affinity Scams for Seniors Act of 2010 or PASS Act of 2010 - Defines affinity scam as a transaction in which a person trusted by a senior, such as a caregiver, relative, guardian, new friend, or service provider, claims to share similar interests or values and establishes a relationship with the senior, then uses the relationship to defraud the senior. Requires each financial institution to: (1) educate its staff about affinity scams and how to identify transactions that may be part of an affinity scam, (2) train staff members on educating seniors about affinity scams. (3) provide senior depositors with educational materials on how to identify affinity scams. And (4) offer seniors a senior protection (checking) account. Directs the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to: (1) issue implementing regulations. And (2) audit financial institutions periodically to ensure compliance with them. Sets forth senior protection account requirements, including protective measures to block and investigate transactions suspected of being an affinity scam. Instructs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish an income tax deduction of .77 of the average of the amount of deposits held by a financial institution in senior protection accounts. Subjects a noncompliant financial institution to a civil liability with respect to a senior who has sustained actual damage as a result of the institution's failure to comply with this Act. Directs the Secretary to require each financial institution, and each of its directors, officers, employees, or agents, to report any suspicious transaction relevant to a possible affinity scam.
Energy Productivity Innovation Challenge Act of 2015 or the EPIC Act of 2015 This bill requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to establish a voluntary electric and thermal energy productivity challenge grant program for providing support to states for: advancing industrial energy efficiency, waste heat recovery, combined heat and power, and waste heat-to-power utilization. Advancing energy efficiency construction and retrofits for commercial buildings, schools, hospitals, and residential buildings. Expanding residential policies and programs designed to implement best practice policies and tools for residential retrofit programs that reduce administrative and delivery costs for energy efficiency projects, encourage streamlining and automation to support contractor engagement, and implement systems that encourage private investment and market innovation. Establishing or expanding incentives in the electric utility sector to enhance demand response and energy efficiency. And promoting state activities involving both facilities and vehicle fleets than can be a model for other action to promote energy efficiency. DOE must: (1) provide subsequent grants for activities to assist energy policy innovation in the states and to promote the goal of doubling electric and thermal energy productivity by January 1, 2030, and (2) invite Indian tribes to participate in the productivity challenge grant program. As an offset to the cost of this bill, the bill amends the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to reduce the authorized amount of appropriations for FY2016-FY2017 for the Zero Net Energy Commercial Buildings Initiative.
Mercury Health Advisory Act of 2003 - Requires the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs jointly to develop fish consumption advisories for methyl-mercury in fish. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to: (1) prepare and distribute to health professionals a consumer's mercury advisory notice regarding the health risks of fish consumption. And (2) establish a toll-free number for individuals who desire additional information. Requires the Administrator to prepare and distribute to specified State entities and applicants for fishing licenses a consumer's guide to mercury, including a health advisory for the consumption of recreationally-caught fish. Requires the Secretary to work with States and other entities to: (1) develop and distribute standardized advisories, including consumption advisories and health warnings, regarding the presence of methyl-mercury in seafood. And (2) design and implement a related national public education program. Directs the Commissioner to resume the Food and Drug Administration's seafood methyl-mercury monitoring sampling program. Requires the Secretary, within one year of enactment of this Act, to finalize the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point assessment to determine whether methyl-mercury exposure through fish consumption is a public health hazard.
Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Director of such Office, to ensure the coordination of all programs that provide assistance to Native American communities within seven specified mission areas of the Department of Agriculture and to ensure the coordination of, or carry out, activities to: (1) promote Indian agricultural programs. (2) facilitate water and waste programs, housing, utility and other infrastructure development with respect to Native American communities, (3) provide assistance to Indian tribal college programs, (4) implement rural economic development programs for Native American communities. And (5) promote food and nutrition services for such communities. Requires the Director to provide: (1) financial and technical assistance and administrative services to assist eligible entities in identifying and taking advantage of business development opportunities and complying with laws and regulatory practices. And (2) such other assistance necessary for the development of business opportunities to enhance Indian tribes' economies. Requires the Director to establish and implement a Native American export and trade promotion program and, in carrying out such program, to ensure the coordination of: (1) Federal programs and services designed to develop Indian tribes' economies and stimulate the demand for Indian goods and services that are available from eligible entities. And (2) Federal programs that are designed to provide technical or financial assistance to eligible entities and any activities related to the development of markets for Indian goods and services. Requires the Director to provide technical assistance and administrative services to assist eligible entities in: (1) identifying and entering markets for Indian goods and services. (2) complying with foreign or domestic laws and practices with respect to financial institutions concerning the export and import of such goods and services. And (3) entering into financial arrangements to provide for the export and trade of Indian agricultural and related products.
Wildlife Disease Emergency Act of 2010 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) declare a wildlife disease emergency in one or more states for a disease that is occurring either within the United States or outside the United States with the potential to enter the United States, (2) lead a coordinated response to the emergency, and (3) implement a grant program to provide funding to state wildlife agencies and Indian tribes to address such emergencies. Directs the Secretary, in making such a declaration, to consider: (1) the level of threat the disease poses to affected wildlife populations. (2) the sufficiency of resources available in the Wildlife Disease Emergency Fund. (3) the ability of the Department of the Interior and other federal, state, and local agencies, tribal governments, and other stakeholders to address and coordinate a response to the disease through other authorities. And (4) any state governor's request for such a declaration. Establishes in the Treasury a Wildlife Disease Emergency Fund, which shall be available to the Secretary for activities authorized by this Act. Directs the Secretary to establish a Wildlife Disease Committee to assist the Secretary in increasing the level of preparedness of the United States to address emerging wildlife diseases. Authorizes the Secretary to convene rapid response teams to address a wildlife disease emergency.
Biennial Appropriations Act This bill amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to change the annual appropriations process to a biennial process for nondefense spending. Congress must consider the defense appropriations bill annually and the remaining appropriations bills in either odd-numbered or even-numbered years. In each year that the appropriations bill for an agency is not considered, Congress must conduct oversight hearings. The bill requires the congressional budget resolution to be accompanied by committee allocations for biennial appropriations and the President's budget to include details that reflect the biennial process. It also creates a point of order against considering: (1) legislation authorizing appropriations for less than two years unless the program requires no further appropriations and will be completed after appropriations are expended, and (2) authorization or revenue legislation until Congress completes action on the budget resolution, appropriations bills, and reconciliation bills. The Office of Management and Budget must report to Congress on the impact and feasibility of a biennial budget process.
Microbicide Development Act - Amends the Public Health Service Act to require the Director of the Office of AIDS Research to: (1) expedite the implementation of the federal strategic plan for the conduct and support of microbicide research and development. And (2) expand, intensify, and coordinate all activities with respect to research and development of microbicides to prevent the transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted diseases. Requires the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases to: (1) establish within the Division of AIDS an organizational branch to carry out microbicide research and development. And (2) assign priority to ensuring adequate funding and support for the Microbicide Trials Network and other programs for supporting microbicides clinical trials. Requires the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to fully implement the CDC's microbicide agenda to support microbicide research and development. Requires the President to direct the head of the Office of HIVAIDS of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to develop and implement a program to support the development of microbicides products for the prevention of the transmission of HIVAIDS and other diseases and facilitate wide-scale availability of such products.
American Indian Equal Justice Act - Amends Federal law concerning the jurisdiction of US district courts to make it a requirement that an Indian tribe, tribal corporation, or member of an Indian tribe collect and remit to a State any excise, use, or sales tax imposed by the State on nonmembers of the Indian tribe as a consequence of the purchase of goods or services by nonmembers from the Indian tribe, tribal corporation, or member. Permits a State to bring an action in a US district court to enforce the requirement. Grants US district courts: (1) original jurisdiction in any civil action or claim against an Indian tribe, in matters arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. (2) jurisdiction of any civil action or claim against an Indian tribe for liquidated or unliquidated damages for cases not sounding in tort that involve any contract made by the governing body of the Indian tribe or on behalf of an Indian tribe. And (3) subject to Indian tribe tort claims procedure provisions under this Act, jurisdiction of civil actions in claims against an Indian tribe for money damages, accruing on or after the enactment of this Act for loss of property, personal injury, or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of an Indian tribe under circumstances in which the Indian tribe, if it were a private individual or corporation, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the State where the act or omission occurred. Sets forth Indian tort claims procedure provisions. Excepts any case relating to a controversy about membership in an Indian tribe. Grants consent to institute a civil cause of action against an Indian tribe in a State court on a claim arising within the State, including a claim arising on an Indian reservation or Indian country, in any case in which the cause of action: (1) arises under Federal or State law. And (2) relates to tort claims or claims not sounding in tort that involve any contract made by the governing body of an Indian tribe on or behalf of a tribe. Provides, in any tort action brought in a State court against an Indian tribe, for that tribe to be liable to the same extent as a private individual or corporation under like circumstances, but not to be liable for interest prior to judgment or for punitive damages. Amends title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to grant US district courts jurisdiction in any civil rights action alleging a failure to comply with rights secured by the requirements under such title.
Displaced Older Worker Assistance Act of 2001-Amends the Internal Revenue Code to: (1) exclude certain severance payments from income. And (2) allow as a credit qualified job retraining expenses for certain older long-time employees who are laid off. Directs the Comptroller General of the United States to study the special needs of displaced older workers.
Preserve Rights Of States and Political subdivisions to Encourage Retirement Savings Act or the PROSPERS Act This bill amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to specify that states and certain political subdivisions may establish and administer voluntary payroll deduction retirement savings programs for private sector employees that are not considered employee pension benefit plans or pension plans covered by ERISA if the plans meet certain requirements. The bill requires the plans to be established, implemented, and administered by states or political subdivisions. The plans must also be voluntary for employees and meet other specified requirements, including restrictions on the involvement of employers and obligations to enforce the rights of employees.
Rural Veterans Health Care Access Act of 2007 - Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Secretary) to establish and implement a pilot program to provide mental health counseling services to eligible veterans at non-Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities. Defines eligible veteran as one who: (1) served on active duty in support of a contingency operation, (2) is eligible to receive hospital care and medical services. (3) has been diagnosed with a mental health condition and recommended to receive mental health counseling. And (4) resides at least 30 miles from a VA medical facility that employs a full-time mental health professional. Requires the Secretary to issue to an eligible veteran a six-month supply of vouchers to be used to pay for counseling services provided by the mental health provider. Requires the Secretary to conduct a study on the effectiveness of the pilot program.
Prosperous and Secure Neighbor Alliance Act of 2007 - States that it is US policy to increase US foreign assistance to improve security and promote economic development in Mexico, both of which are crucial to combat illicit drugs and drug-related violence and other criminal activities in Mexico and the United States. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to direct the President to provide assistance to improve security and promote economic development in Mexico by: (1) professionalizing Mexican law enforcement personnel, (2) providing technology to assist Mexican law enforcement personnel, (3) strengthening the Mexican judicial branch, (4) supporting anti-corruption programs in Mexico. And (5) reducing poverty through targeted funding to enhance social development in Mexico.
Allows as a deduction an amount equal to the applicable percentage of the amount paid for qualified health insurance coverage for a taxpayer, his spouse, and dependents. Increases, incrementally, the percentage from 60 percent in calendar year 2000 to 100 percent for calendar years 2004 and thereafter. Excludes coverage under which less than 50 percent of the cost of coverage is borne by the taxpayer.
Skilled Worker Immigration and Fairness Act - Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to exempt from the annual H-1B visa cap an alien who has: (1) earned a master's or higher degree in science, technology, engineering, or mathematics from an institution of higher education outside of the United States. Or (2) been awarded a medical specialty certification based on post-doctoral training and experience in the United States. Sets H-1B annual limits at: (1) 115,000 for FY2007. And (2) for each subsequent fiscal year, the greater of 115,000 or a market-based calculation. Exempts from numerical limitations on employment-based immigrants: (1) aliens who have earned advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering, or math and have been working in their fields in the United States under a nonimmigrant visa in the three years prior to filing for adjustment, (2) recipients of national interest waivers. And (3) immediate relatives of employment-based immigrants. Permits an alien to file for adjustment of status whether or not an employment-based immigrant visa is immediately available if: (1) a petition on behalf of the alien has been approved. Or (2) adjudication of such petition is pending. Revises H-1B provisions with respect to: (1) application fraud and misrepresentation, (2) employer penalties, (3) Department of Labor investigations. (4) Department of Labor and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) information sharing, (5) information provided to an H-1B nonimmigrant upon visa issuance, (6) prohibiting H-1B-exclusive employment advertising. And (7) prohibiting an employer of fewer than 50 employees in the United States from having more than 50 H-1B nonimmigrant employees.
Small Business, Family Farms, and Constitutional Protection Act - Prohibits the use of Federal funds to propose or issue rules, regulations, decrees, or orders or for programs to implement the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change before the date on which the Senate gives its advice and consent to Protocol ratification. Provides that no Federal agency has authority to promulgate regulations to limit carbon dioxide emissions unless a law is enacted after this Act's enactment that specifically grants such authority. Prohibits the use of Federal funds to advocate, develop, or implement a program providing regulatory credits for early voluntary greenhouse gas emission reductions before the date on which the Senate gives its advice and consent to Protocol ratification.
Security and Liberty Preservation Act - Establishes the Commission on Enhancing Security and Preserving Freedom to conduct a thorough investigation of: (1) standards for using, selecting, and operating investigative and surveillance technologies to meet law enforcement and national security needs in the manner that best preserves the personal dignity, liberty, and privacy of individuals within the United States. And (2) the advisability of establishing Government entities or procedures to ensure that the Government complies with such standards.
Taxpayer Protection Act of 1997 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to revise provisions concerning of the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate. Places such office under the direction of the National Taxpayer Advocate, who shall be appointed by the President. Revises provisions concerning reporting and responsibilities of the Office, including directing the National Taxpayer Advocate to appoint local taxpayer advocates who shall report directly to the National Taxpayer Advocate. Requires each local taxpayer advocate office to maintain separate phone, facsimile, and other communication access, and a separate post office address from its IRS district office or service center. Revises provisions concerning the authority to issue taxpayer assistance orders.
Protect Children from Video Game Sex and Violence Act of 2003 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit the sale or rental to a minor of a video game that depicts nudity, sexual conduct, or other content harmful to minors.
Veterans Health Care Facilities Capital Improvement Act of 2011 - Authorizes, within specified amounts, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out certain FY2012 major medical facility construction projects (projects) at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers in Seattle, Washington and West Los Angeles, California. Modifies authorizations for certain previously authorized projects in Fayetteville, Arkansas, the Orlando, Florida area, Palo Alto, California, San Juan, Puerto Rico, and St. Louis, Missouri. Authorizes the Secretary to carry out FY2012 major medical facility leases (leases) at specified outpatient and community-based outpatient clinics in Alabama, California, Georgia, Indiana, Missouri, New York, and Oregon. Authorizes appropriations for such projects and leases. Provides project and lease funding limitations. Directs the Secretary to include in the prospectus required to be submitted to Congress with a request for funding of a major medical facility project or lease: (1) a detailed estimate of the total costs of the medical facility including the number of personnel and itemized costs for construction, activation, special purpose alteration, ancillary services, and equipment. And (2) data concerning demographics, workload, utilization, and operating costs over a 5-, 10-, and 20-year period. Requires further, in the case of a proposed new or replacement facility, a detailed: (1) report of the consideration given to acquiring an existing facility by lease or purchase and to the sharing of health-care resources with the Department of Defense (DOD), and (2) total cost estimate and a cost-benefit comparison for each considered alternative to construction of the facility and an explanation of why the preferred alternative is the most effective means to achieve the stated project goals. Prohibits the Secretary from using bid savings on a major construction project to expand the purpose of such a project until after submitting specified information to the congressional veterans committees, including the major project that is the source of the bid savings and the major project for which the Secretary intends to expand the purpose. Designates the VA telehealth clinic in Craig, Colorado, as the Major William Edward Adams Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic. Designates the VA medical center in Big Spring, Texas, as the George H. O'Brien, Jr. Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Extends through 2012 specified authority for: (1) treatment, rehabilitation, and additional services for seriously mentally ill and homeless veterans, (2) housing assistance for homeless veterans, and (3) the Advisory Committee on Homeless Veterans. Extends through FY2012 the authority of the Secretary of Labor to conduct homeless veterans reintegration programs. Extends through 2018 the authority for transfers of real property under the Secretary's jurisdiction or control. Extends to September 30, 2020, the recovery audit program for certain fee basis and other medical services contracts concerning non-VA care and services for veterans and beneficiaries. Increases authorized amounts for the VA comprehensive service programs for FY2012. Provides a reduced amount for FY2013 and thereafter. Increases and extends through FY2012 the authorization of appropriations for the VA program of financial assistance for supportive services for very low-income veteran families residing in permanent housing. Extends through: (1) FY2012 a VA grant program for homeless veterans with special needs, and (2) the end of 2012 specially adapted housing assistance for disabled veterans residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member. Extends through November 18, 2011, VA authority to: (1) charge a loan fee for certain subsequent housing loans made to veterans, and (2) verify veterans' income information from the Secretary of the Treasury or the Commissioner of Social Security. Extends through November 18, 2011, VA authority to verify veterans' income information through the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) before terminating or reducing certain benefits and services. Makes a conforming amendment to part D of title IV of the Social Security Act authorizing the release of such information by the HHS Secretary.
Merchant Marine of World War II Congressional Gold Medal Act This bill requires the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the award, on behalf of Congress, of a single gold medal to the US Merchant Marine of World War II, in recognition of their dedicated and vital service during World War II. Following its award the medal shall be given to the American Merchant Marine Museum where it will be available for display and research.
United States-Mexico Transboundary Aquifer Assessment Act - Establishes a United States-Mexico transboundary aquifer assessment program to characterize, map, and model groundwater resources along the border. Describes as the program's objectives to: (1) develop an integrated approach to assess transboundary groundwater resources, including identifying fresh and saline aquifers, prioritizing the aquifers for further analysis, and creating a geographic information system database for each priority aquifer. (2) expand existing agreements between the US Geological Survey, the Border States , the Water Resources Research Institutes, and appropriate US and Mexican authorities to conduct joint scientific investigations and archive and share relevant data. And (3) produce scientific products for each priority aquifer to provide water managers and natural resource agencies with necessary information. Designates as priority transboundary aquifers the: (1) Hueco Bolson and Mesilla aquifers, (2) Santa Cruz River Valley aquifers. And (3) San Pedro aquifers. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) develop partnerships with relevant organizations in Mexico. And (2) coordinate activities with water resource agencies in the Border States and affected Indian tribes. Prohibits the Secretary from initiating any field studies before consulting and coordinating with the Border State water resource agency with jurisdiction over the aquifer. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants and enter into cooperative agreements with water resource agencies and Border States to carry out the program.
Effective Terrorists Prosecution Act of 2006 - Amends federal armed forces provisions enacted by the Military Commissions Act of 2006 to, among other things: (1) exclude from military commission (commission) trials statements obtained by coercion. (2) allow a commission military judge to exclude hearsay evidence determined to be unreliable or lacking in probative value. (3) provide for review of commission decisions by the US Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces rather than the Court of Military Commission Review. (4) revise generally provisions concerning the implementation of treaty obligations with respect to the US prosecution of enemy combatants. (5) restore habeas corpus rights for individuals detained by the United States. And (6) provide for expedited judicial review of provisions of the Military Commissions Act of 2006.
Endangered Species Community Advisory Board Act of 1995 - Amends the Endangered Species Act of 1973 to direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish an Endangered Species Community Advisory Board in connection with the designation of an area under the Act as critical habitat or as a National Wildlife Refuge. Allows the Secretary, subject to the availability of appropriations, to make funds available to facilitate the participation of individuals from the private sector on such Boards to ensure public input into the designation of such areas or Refuges. Requires the Board to: (1) monitor and periodically report to the Secretary on progress made in the conservation and recovery of species for which the critical habitat or Refuge was designated. And (2) periodically review and report to the Secretary regarding the continued accuracy and sufficiency of the scientific findings that were the basis of such designation.
Requires that, upon relinquishment by the Bay Mills Indian Community of all claims to the Charlotte Beach Lands and dismissal of specified suits by the Community concerning title to such lands: (1) the Secretary of the Interior shall take certain Alternative Lands into trust for the benefit of such Community as part of the settlement of the Community's claim to the Charlotte Beach Lands. And (2) the Alternative Lands shall become part of the Community's reservation. Directs the Secretary to take certain other Michigan lands into trust for the benefit of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Michigan as settlement of that Tribe's claims to the Charlotte Beach Lands.
Federal Repeal of Expensive Exchanges Act or the FREE Act - Repeals provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) providing for: (1) a health insurance premium assistance tax credit and advance payments for credit amounts, (2) reductions in out-of-pocket health care expenses for certain low income taxpayers (cost-sharing) and advance payments of cost-sharing amounts, (3) the individual mandate to purchase health care coverage under PPACA, and (4) the employer mandate to provide health care coverage to employees under PPACA and the reporting requirements with respect to such mandate.
Local Innovation and Coastal Protection Act of 1993 - Amends the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to require the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to make grants from the Coastal Erosion Control Fund to States and qualifying communities for an erosion mitigation demonstration program. Gives grant priority to projects that: (1) have multiple location applicability, (2) broaden existing erosion control techniques. Or (3) rely on natural designs rather than structural alterations. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes in the Treasury the Coastal Erosion Control Fund. Requires the Director to: (1) assess an annual five-dollar flood insurance premium mitigation surcharge to be paid into such Fund, unless the Fund's balance exceeds $15 million. (2) evaluate and publish a list of the most effective erosion mitigation measures. And (3) provide flood insurance rate incentives for erosion mitigation efforts.
Serving our Rural Veterans Act of 2017 This bill authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to pay for the training and employment of Veterans Health Administration medical residents and interns at a covered facility, which includes: (1) a VA facility. (2) a facility operated by an Indian tribe, a tribal organization, or the Indian Health Service, (3) a federally-qualified health center. Or (4) a community health center. The VA shall carry out an eight-year pilot program to establish or affiliate with graduate medical education residency training programs at not more than four facilities. The VA shall reimburse each participating facility for the costs of: curriculum development, recruitment, training, supervision, and retention of residents and faculty, accreditation of education programs, faculty salaries attributable to program activities. And other expenses relating to providing medical education under the program. A program participant: (1) shall agree to one year of obligated service at a covered or a VA facility for each year of partipation in the program, (2) who fails to satisfy the obligated service period shall be liable to the United States for a prorated portion of the amount paid for program participation, and (3) during the period of obligated service, shall be eligible for participation in the Indian Health Service Loan Repayment Program and the VA Education Debt Reduction Program. A covered facility for pilot program purposes means a facility: (1) operated by an Indian tribe, a tribal organization, or the Indian Health Service that has an existing reimbursement agreement with the VA, and (2) located in a rural or remote area.
Turkish Human Rights Act - Prohibits economic support fund (ESF) assistance to the Government of Turkey unless the Secretary of State determines that there has been significant progress by such Government in: (1) permitting international human rights monitoring organizations to report on the human rights situation in Turkey, (2) ceasing to deny human rights to the Kurdish people. (3) taking action to demilitarize Cyprus and provide support for democracy there, (4) ceasing to blockade US and international assistance to Armenia, and (5) ceasing its restrictions on religious freedom.
Manhattan Project National Historical Park Act - Establishes the Manhattan Project National Historical Park as a unit of the National Park System, which may be composed of specified facilities, lands, or interests in land in one or more eligible areas or parts of such areas in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, Los Alamos, New Mexico. And Hanford, Washington. Requires inclusion of the B Reactor National Historic Landmark in Hanford. Directs the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Energy (DOE) to enter into an agreement to govern their respective roles in administering the facilities, lands, or interests in land under DOE's jurisdiction to be included in the Park. Requires the Secretary under any such agreement to: (1) have decisionmaking authority for the content of the historic interpretation of the Manhattan Project for purposes of administering the Historical Park, and (2) ensure that the agreement provides for an appropriate advisory role for the National Park Service (NPS) in preserving the historic resources covered by the agreement. Requires the DOE Secretary under any such agreement to: (1) ensure that the agreement appropriately protects public safety, national security, and other aspects of the ongoing mission of DOE at the Oak Ridge Reservation, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and Hanford Site, (2) retain responsibility for any necessary environmental remediation. And (3) retain authority and legal obligations for historic preservation and general maintenance. Requires the Secretary to consult with interested state, county, and local officials, and members of the public before executing any such agreement and in developing the general management plan. Requires the Secretary to develop a general management plan for the Park in consultation and collaboration with the Oak Ridge, Los Alamos, and Richland DOE site offices. Authorizes the Secretary to provide interpretive tours of historically significant Manhattan Project sites and resources that are located outside the boundary of the Park. Prohibits the acquisition by condemnation of any land or interest in land for the purposes of this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) enter into agreements with federal agencies to provide public access to, and management, interpretation, and historic preservation of, historically significant Manhattan Project resources under their control. And (2) accept donations from, and enter into cooperative agreements with, state governments, local governments, tribal governments, organizations, or individuals to further the purpose of such an interagency agreement, or to provide visitor services and administrative facilities within proximity to the Historical Park. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to such governments, organizations, or individuals for the management, interpretation, and historic preservation of historically significant Manhattan Project resources not included in the Historical Park. Prohibits anything in this Act, the establishment of the Historical Park, or the management plan for the Historical Park from being construed as creating buffer zones outside of the Park. Prohibits anything in this Act from constituting a cause of action respecting activities outside or adjacent to the established boundary of the Park.
Spring Mountain Exchange Act of 1998 - Requires the Secretary of the Interior to convey to Rhodes Design and Development Corporation certain Federal lands in Clark County, Nevada, in exchange for: (1) certain Corporation lands in Nevada. And (2) specified payments by the Corporation to the State of Nevada for use in its general education program and to the Southern Nevada Water Authority for water treatment and transmission facility infrastructure. Provides that such payments shall be considered to be a cost incurred by the Corporation and shall be compensated by the Secretary.
Prescription Drug Monitoring Act of 2016 This bill requires a state that receives grant funds under the prescription drug monitoring program (PDMP) or the controlled substance monitoring program to comply with specified requirements. The Department of Justice (DOJ) or Department of Health and Human Services may withhold grant funds from a state that fails to comply. Additionally, the bill requires a state to share its PDMP data with other states through a data-sharing hub established by DOJ.
Significant Regulation Oversight Act of 1996 - Prohibits a significant rule from taking effect before the enactment of a joint resolution comprised solely of the text of such rule. Provides that, before a proposed significant rule takes effect as a final rule, the agency proposing the rule shall submit to each House of Congress a report containing a copy of the rule, a concise summary of its purpose and anticipated effects, any cost-benefit analysis prepared for the rule, the specific statutory interpretation under which the rule is proposed, and any other relevant information or executive order. Bars a court or agency from inferring any intent of the Congress with regard to such a rule or a related statute if it fails to enact a joint resolution approving a proposed significant rule. Provides for the revision or revocation of an existing rule upon enactment of a joint resolution introduced pursuant to a petition for review signed by 30 Members in the Senate or 120 Representatives in the House and containing the rule affected and the rule as it would exist if the joint resolution were enacted. Sets forth congressional procedures for the introduction, referral, and consideration of such joint resolutions for the approval of significant proposed rules or the review of existing rules. Exempts from this Act any rule concerning monetary policy proposed or implemented by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or the Federal Open Market Committee.
This bill requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to report to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Congress on the filing requirements for telecommunications carriers or service providers that receive Universal Service Fund support under the Communications Act of 1934 to provide service to qualifying low-income consumers, rural or high-cost areas, rural health care providers, schools, or libraries under the Connect America Fund, Lifeline, E-Rate, Rural Health Care, Remote Areas Fund, Connect America Fund Broadband Loop Support, Mobility Fund, and High Cost Loop Support for Rate-of-Return Carriersnbsp. Programs. The report must analyze the financial impact of those filing requirements and provide any recommendations on how to consolidate redundant filing requirements. After receiving the GAO's report, the FCC must initiate a rulemaking to consolidate redundant filing requirements and incorporate any GAO recommendations that would not violate the Administrative Procedure Act into such rulemaking or any ongoing rulemakings.
Older Workers' Rights Restoration Act of 2001 (sic) - Amends the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 to require States to waive their sovereign immunity to lawsuit for violations of such Act against State employees in programs or activities that receive Federal financial assistance. Allows such State employees to sue: (1) States for equitable, legal, or other authorized relief. And (2) State officials for injunctive relief, as authorized upon compliance with certain procedures, with the award of costs to the prevailing party. Applies such State waiver, following enactment of this Act, to conduct on or after the day the State first receives or uses Federal financial assistance for the program or activity. Applies this Act with respect to injunctive relief against a State official to any suit pending on or after enactment.
Agricultural Credit Expansion Act - Amends the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to expand eligibility for Farm Service Agency operating loans, farm ownership loans, conservation loans, and emergency loans. Deems specified embedded entities eligible for farm ownership and operating loans. Deems specified operating-only entities eligible for farm ownership loans. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) to determine that an entity that is an owner-operator or operator meets the direct ownership loan requirement if it is owned in whole or in part by other entities and each individual that is an owner of the family farm involved has an ownership interest in each of the other entities. Permits direct loans to be used to refinance Farm Service Agency loans or guaranteed loans. Eliminates the 15-year limitation on the period operating loan borrowers are eligible for guaranteed assistance.
Elementary and Secondary School Counseling Improvement Act of 2001 - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants to local educational agencies to establish or expand elementary and secondary school counseling programs.
Makes technical and conforming amendments to public lands provisions relating to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park. Renames the Golden Gate National Recreation Area as the Golden Gate National Parks. Designates the Golden Gate National Parks as a national park to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior. Amends the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 to make technical amendments to provisions concerning the Presidio of San Francisco and to eliminate the requirement for reversion of lands held by the Presidio Trust to the General Services Administration (GSA). Establishes the Fort Scott, Presidio of San Francisco Advisory Task Force to advise the Presidio Board of Directors on the preservation and reuse of Fort Scott.
Detainee Basic Medical Care Act of 2008 - Directs: (1) the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish procedures for the delivery of medical and mental health care to all immigration detainees in Department of Homeland Security (DHS) custody. And (2) that such procedures address all detainee health needs, including primary care, emergency care, chronic care, prenatal care, dental care, eye care, mental health care, medical dietary needs, and other medically necessary specialized care.
Amends the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to establish the Marketplace Health Insurance Corporation, with a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Board of Directors, to oversee health care exchanges and health insurance. Directs the President, with the consent of the Senate, to appoint as CEO an individual with a background in health care issues and private-sector management experience. Requires the Board of Directors to advise the CEO on issues including: (1) the functionality of healthcare. gov, (2) the selection of federal exchange health plans, (3) ensuring the accuracy of premium subsidies, and (4) the transition from a state exchange to the federal exchange. Requires the Board of Directors to establish a technical advisory committee to assist the Board of Directors and CEO in carrying out their duties.
Agricultural Equity Act of 1995 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to make price support loans and deficiency payments through 2002 for wheat, feed grains, rice, upland cotton, and oilseeds. Provides for increased flex acreage. Requires crop insurance as a condition of program eligibility. Directs the Secretary to review the status and future of production agriculture, including development of related legislative proposals.
Rural Energy for America Act of 2006 - Amends the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 to rename the renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements program as the rural energy for America program (REAP). Makes rural school districts eligible for REAP. Authorizes: (1) production-based incentives in lieu of grants for electricity production from renewable energy systems contingent upon third-party sales. And (2) matching assistance for feasibility studies. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to make grants to eligible entities to provide rebates for farmers, ranchers, rural school districts, and rural small businesses to purchase renewable energy systems and make energy efficiency improvements. Defines eligible entities as: (1) a state energy or agriculture office. (2) a nonprofit state-based energy efficiency or renewable energy organization that uses public funds provided directly or under contract with a state agency. (3) any other nonprofit organization with a demonstrated ability to administer a statewide energy efficiency or renewable energy rebate program. Or (4) a consortium of such entities. Limits rebates to the lower of $10,000 or 50 of the cost to purchase a renewable energy system or an energy efficiency improvement. Extends REAP funding through FY 2012 with set-asides for the rebate program. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Secretary should implement a direct loan program to complement REAP grants.
Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to enter into one or more contracts with facilities located within 25 miles of a current or former Department of Energy (DOE) defense nuclear facility for the procurement of products and services to support waste cleanup and modernization activities at such nuclear facilities. Requires the Secretary to give preference to facilities that plan to hire, to the maximum extent practicable, residents in the vicinity of the defense nuclear facility who are employed or who have previously been employed by DOE or its private contractor at the facility. Prohibits any person from bringing a claim against a contractor or subcontractor for injury, cost, damage, illness, death, damage to property, or economic loss caused by a release of a hazardous contaminant during performance of the contract, unless such release or threatened release is caused by contractor or subcontractor negligence or intentional misconduct. Sets forth a six year statute of limitations for commencement of such actions. Directs the Secretary and contractors under the Secretary's supervision, in entering into a contract or subcontract with a private entity for products to be acquired or services to be performed at a qualifying DOE site, to give preference to an entity that plans to: (1) provide products and services originating from communities within 25 miles of the site. (2) hire residents living in the site's vicinity to perform the contract. And (3) invest in value-added activities in the site's vicinity to mitigate adverse economic development impacts resulting from closure or restructuring of the site.
College Literacy in Finance and Economics Act of 2011 or College LIFE Act - Amends title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require institutions of higher education (IHEs) to provide student borrowers under the Federal Family Education Loan, Direct Loan, and Perkins Loan programs with financial literacy counseling within 45 days of their first receipt of such a loan and prior to the completion of their studies or when they leave school. Requires student borrowers to receive at least four hours of counseling on each occasion. Makes such counseling requirements inapplicable to borrowers of consolidation loans. Requires financial literacy counseling to include information on student financial aid, banking, budgeting and saving, credit and debt management, credit cards and products, investing, credit scores, housing, taxes, and responsible financial decision making. Directs the Secretary of Education to develop a curriculum that IHEs may use to fulfill this Act's requirements.
Medicare Fraud Enforcement and Prevention Act of 2013 - Amends title XI of the Social Security Act (SSA) to increase criminal penalties for both felony and misdemeanor fraud under SSA titles XVIII (Medicare) and XIX (Medicaid). Adds a new offense of distribution of two or more Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary identification numbers or billing privileges. Applies civil monetary penalties to: (1) conspiracy to make false statements or commit other specified offenses with respect to Medicare or Medicaid claims. And (2) knowing creation or use of false records or statements with respect to the transmission of money or property to a federal health care program. Extends the statute of limitations from six to 10 years after presentation of a claim. Amends SSA title XVIII (Medicare), as amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), to revise screening requirements. Amends SSA title XI, as amended by PPACA, to require the access to claims and payment data granted to Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Attorney General to include access to real time claims and payment data. Requires the HHS Inspector General to implement mechanisms for the sharing of information about suspected fraud relating to the federal health care programs under Medicare, Medicaid, and SSA title XXI (CHIP) with other appropriate law enforcement officials. Directs the HHS Secretary to provide for a study that analyzes the feasibility and benefits in reducing waste, fraud, and abuse of carrying out a program that implements biometric technology to ensure that individuals entitled to benefits under Medicare part A or enrolled under Medicare part B are physically present at the time and place of receipt of certain items and services for which payment may be made.
Protecting Consumer Phone Records Act - Makes it unlawful to: (1) acquire or use customer proprietary network information without written consent. (2) represent that another person has consented in order to acquire such information. (3) obtain unauthorized access to certain systems or records in order to acquire such information, (4) sell or offer for sale such information. Or (5) request that another person unlawfully obtain such information. Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to provide for a civil forfeiture penalty for violation of this Act. Imposes on IP-enabled voice service providers a duty to protect the confidentiality of specified proprietary information. Requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to require each telecommunications carrier to notify customers of unlawful disclosure of such information. Prohibits a commercial mobile services provider from providing any customer's wireless telephone number information to any wireless directory assistance service without express prior customer authorization. Requires de-listing on customer request without cost to the customer. Prohibits providers from publishing the information without such authorization. Prohibits fees for exercising these rights. Preempts any inconsistent state or local requirements. Requires that violations of certain provisions of this Act be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and treated as unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Gives the FCC concurrent enforcement jurisdiction. Provides for enforcement by states and preemption of state law. Requires public education about the protection afforded such information.
This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on August 4, 2015. Critical Infrastructure Protection Act or CIPA Amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to define quot, EMPquot. To mean: (1) an electromagnetic pulse caused by intentional means, including acts of terrorism. And (2) a geomagnetic disturbance caused by solar storms or other naturally occurring phenomena. Directs DHS to: (1) include in national planning frameworks the threat of EMP events. And (2) conduct outreach to educate owners and operators of critical infrastructure, emergency planners, and emergency response providers of the threat of EMP events. Directs DHS to conduct research and development to mitigate the consequences of EMP events, including: (1) an objective scientific analysis of the risks to critical infrastructures from a range of EMP events. (2) determination of the critical national security assets and vital civic utilities and infrastructures that are at risk from EMP events. (3) an evaluation of emergency planning and response technologies that would address the findings and recommendations of experts, including those of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack. (4) an analysis of available technology options to improve the resiliency of critical infrastructure to EMP. And (5) the restoration and recovery capabilities of critical infrastructure under differing levels of damage and disruption from various EMP events. Includes among the responsibilities of DHS relating to intelligence and analysis and infrastructure protection, to prepare and submit to specified congressional committees: (1) a recommended strategy to protect and prepare the critical infrastructure of the American homeland against EMP events, and (2) biennial updates on the status of such strategy. Requires DHS to report within 180 days after enactment of this Act on the progress made in meeting, and on an estimated date for completing, the requirements set forth under this Act.
Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act Amendments of 1993 - Amends the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act to revise the Act's statements of findings and purpose and to declare related policy. Requires: (1) advance public notice of any Federal programmatic and administrative review. (2) solicitation of public comment on State systems to protect and advocate the rights of persons with developmental disabilities. (3) inclusion of the comment findings in the onsite visit report. And (4) distribution of the review results. Removes from the definition of State, as it applies to university affiliated programs under the Act, references to the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. Authorizes appropriations under the Act for priority area activities, protection and advocacy of the rights of individuals with developmental disabilities, university affiliated programs, and projects of national significance.
Highway Trust Fund Integrity Act of 1997 - Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to define revenue constrained fund (fund) as the budget authority, outlays, and receipts of the Highway Account of the Highway Trust Fund. States that such fund shall not be: (1) considered part of any discretionary funding category or part of direct spending. Or (2) subject to sequestration. Amends the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to prohibit any House of Representatives or Senate measure that would increase fiscal year budget authority for a fund above an amount made available under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 to reduce available fund amounts so as not to exceed the previous year's deposited fund amounts. States that any budgetary offset necessary because of additional spending provided by this Act should not come from surface transportation programs. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to report on ensuring the deficit neutrality of the Highway Trust Fund.
Offshore Fracking Transparency and Review Act of 2015 This bill prohibits both hydraulic fracturing and acid well stimulation treatment in the Pacific Outer Continental Shelf Region until the Secretary of the Interior has: (1) reported to Congress on the conduct and impacts of hydraulic fracturing and acid well stimulation treatments in the Region. And (2) issued, in coordination with the Environmental Protection Agency, a final environmental impact statement regarding the impacts upon the marine environment and public health of offshore hydraulic fracturing and acid well stimulation treatments conducted in such Region. The Secretary must notify all relevant state and local regulatory agencies and publish in the Federal Register within 30 days: (1) receipt of any application for a permit that would allow either offshore hydraulic fracturing or acid well stimulation treatment in the Region. And (2) the conduct of offshore hydraulic fracturing or acid well stimulation treatment in the Region pursuant to a permit or other authorization issued by the Secretary. The Secretary shall also maintain and publicize a list of all offshore hydraulic fracturing and acid well stimulation treatments that have taken place in the Region or that take place after enactment of this Act.
Appalachian Regional Development Act Amendments of 2002 - Amends the Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965 to include as functions of the Appalachian Regional Commission that it: (1) support local development districts, (2) encourage the use of eco-industrial development technologies and approaches. And (3) seek to coordinate economic development activities of, and the use of economic development resources by, Federal agencies in the Appalachian region. Directs the President to establish the Interagency Coordinating Council on Appalachia. Authorizes the Commission to provide technical assistance and make grants, enter into contracts, and otherwise provide funds to persons or entities in the region for projects to: (1) increase affordable access to advanced telecommunications, entrepreneurship, and management technologies or applications. (2) provide education and training in the use of telecommunications and technology. (3) develop programs to increase the readiness of industry groups and businesses in the region to engage in electronic commerce. Or (4) support entrepreneurial opportunities for businesses in the information technology sector. Authorizes the Commission to provide technical assistance, make grants, enter into contracts, or otherwise provide funds to persons or entities in the region for projects to: (1) support the advancement of, and provide, entrepreneurial training and education for youths, students, and businesspersons. (2) improve access to debt and equity capital, by such means as the establishment of development venture capital funds. (3) aid communities in identifying, developing, and implementing development strategies for various sectors of the economy. And (4) develop a working network of business incubators and to support entities that provide business incubator services. Defines business incubator service as a professional or technical service necessary for the initiation and initial sustainment of the operations of a newly established business. Authorizes the Commission to provide technical assistance, make grants, enter into contracts, or otherwise provide funds to eligible entities in the region for projects to improve the job skills of workers in a specified industry. Limits all grants under this Act to 50 percent of project costs or 80 percent for projects carried out in distress-designated counties. Eliminates from criteria for programs and projects to be given assistance under the Act that an area have significant growth potential. Requires that, for FY 2003 and each fiscal year thereafter, not less than 50 percent of the amount of grant expenditures approved by the Commission support activities or projects that benefit severely and persistently distressed counties and areas. Allows, at the Commission's discretion, for coverage of up to 75 percent of the administrative expenses of local development districts that have a charter or authority that includes the economic development of a county for which a distressed county designation is in effect. Extends through FY 2006 the authorization of appropriations for: (1) carrying out the Act. And (2) the telecommunications and technology initiative. Adds Edmonson and Hart ( Kentucky), and Montgomery and Panola (Mississippi) to the counties included in the Appalachian region. Extends the deadline for the termination of certain provisions of the Act to October 1, 2006.
Congenital Heart Futures Reauthorization Act of 2015 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to replace the authorization for a National Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance System with a requirement for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), regarding congenital heart disease, to enhance and expand research and surveillance infrastructure, and plan and implement a public outreach and education campaign. The CDC must award grants to nonprofit entities to conduct: (1) a cohort study of congenital heart disease, from birth to adulthood, that considers health care utilization, demographic factors, and outcomes. And (2) an awareness, outreach, and education campaign regarding congenital heart disease. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute must report on its ongoing research efforts regarding congenital heart disease, future plans for such research, and areas of greatest need for such research.
NSA Internal Watchdog Act - Amends the Inspector General Act of 1978 to require the President to appoint, with advice and consent of the Senate, the Inspector General of the National Security Agency (NSA). Directs the Inspector General to include in an annual report to Congress a review of the mechanisms for NSA employees or contractors to submit complaints. Establishes a General Counsel to the NSA Inspector General, to be appointed by the Inspector General. Authorizes the Inspector General, after providing the Attorney General (DOJ) with seven days' advance notice, to subpoena the attendance and testimony of former NSA employees or NSA contractors, former contractors, or former detailees. Requires the Inspector General to provide Congress with an evaluation of any notice or statement of reasons the Inspector General receives from the Secretary of Defense (DOD) regarding the Secretary's exercise of authority in the interest of national security to prohibit the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out, or completing any audit or investigation. Directs the Inspector General, in carrying out any audit or investigation of a surveillance or data collection program, to assess the impact of such program on civil rights and liberties. Requires the Inspector General's reports to Congress to be made available to all Members of Congress. Directs the Inspector General to audit and report to Congress regarding the effectiveness and use of NSA surveillance and data collection programs, including programs under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA) that authorize: (1) the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to submit applications to the FISA court for an order requiring the production of tangible things. And (2) the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), with the approval of the FISA court or under exigent circumstances, to authorize the targeting of persons located outside the United States. Requires such audit to address: (1) the interactions between the NSA and the FISA court, and (2) the process for conducting background investigations of persons for NSA employment or for receiving access to classified information.
Veterans' Health Care Eligibility Reform Act of 1994 - Defines continuum of health care and noninstitutional long-term care under veterans' health care provisions. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide a continuum of health care to veterans eligible for veterans' benefits. Directs the Secretary to provide institutional nursing home care to certain disabled veterans or those in receipt of a veterans' pension. Allows for recovery of nursing home care costs by the Secretary if the veteran is also eligible for such care through a State plan under title XIX (Medicaid) of the Social Security Act. Designates a Department of Veterans Affairs facility as a Medicare provider for purposes of any program administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act. Declares a Department medical center as a Medicare HMO. Directs the HHS Secretary to reimburse a Department facility or medical center for providing services as a Medicare provider in the case of care for a non-service-connected disability of a veteran eligible for Medicare benefits. Directs the Secretary to develop a plan to implement the provision of institutional long-term care for veterans who: (1) have a service-connected disability of less than 50 percent, (2) have an annual income below a formulated amount, (3) have a catastrophic nonservice-connected disability. Or (4) require such care as a follow-up to inpatient care. Outlines, with respect to such care, provisions concerning: (1) premiums and copayments for covered veterans, (2) the issuance of a long-term care insurance contract. And (3) a report from the Secretary to the Congress on the costs of the plan and the insurance contract and legislation required for plan implementation. Directs the Secretary to administer a program of health insurance known as the VA Group Health Plan as a managed-care plan meeting specified requirements. Allows any eligible veteran and his or her spouse or child to be enrolled in the Plan. Provides Plan enrollment requirements. Prohibits the Plan from imposing a limitation or exclusion of benefits relating to treatment for certain preexisting conditions. Directs the Secretary to administer the Plan so that no appropriated funds are required for Plan operation. Requires an annual report to the Congress by the Secretary on Plan operation, as well as an initial report. Directs the Secretary to administer the health programs of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) through use of a managed care medical practice model, with limitations. Directs the Secretary to organize the VHA health care delivery and resources into geographic regions known as veterans service areas. Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary for FY 1995 through 1999 for: (1) acquiring medical equipment to relieve existing medical equipment backlogs in Department facilities. And (2) infrastructure improvement, patient care amenities, primary care services and personnel, and medical facility construction projects.
Makes available 500 scholarship grants and stipends to outstanding students enrolled in nationally accredited teacher training graduate programs who are committed to pursuing such careers in secondary school mathematics and science teaching. Authorizes appropriations. Designates funds under this Act as National Math and Science Teacher Scholarships. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to award funds for such scholarships on a competitive basis to qualifying higher education institutions with graduate programs in teacher training. Limits the amount of such funds in any academic year which may be awarded to any individual higher education institution. Makes an institution eligible for such funds only if it is ranked by the Secretary in the top 25 percent of schools in its State with the highest percentage of graduates passing the State teacher qualification assessment for new teachers. Directs the Secretary to give priority to eligible institutions that have one or more of these: (1) a year-long internship program in a professional development school. (2) mentoring programs for novice teachers in their first three years. (3) a history of placing graduates in rural and urban schools. And (4) a high retention rate of teachers that the institution places in teaching positions. Sets forth eligibility requirements for individual scholarships. Limits the scholarship amount per student to $10,000 per academic year. Requires scholarship recipients to agree to teach in an urban or rural public secondary school for at least three full academic years, or repay the pro rata amount of awards received, plus interest, for any failure to fulfill such obligation. Sets forth exceptions to such repayment requirements.
Makes a member of the Armed Forces who is performing duty in response to a disaster or emergency declaration after August 28, 2005, in an area affected by Hurricane Katrina or Rita eligible for hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care for any disability, notwithstanding insufficient medical evidence to conclude that the disability is attributable to such duty. Prohibits such care or services with respect to a disability found to have resulted from a cause other than such duty. Terminates eligibility two years after the member's discharge or release from such duty. Directs the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to review and make recommendations for the health surveillance of members who may be exposed to environmental hazards as the result of duty in areas affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to maintain a database of members provided health care by the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to such duty.